Fancy a little kinky sex? GCHQ+NSA will know - thanks to ANGRY BIRDS  The Register
Akamai rides on the botnet's back to US$584 million quarter
IBM Australia didn't stress-test #censusfail router and blocked password resets
Benioff on being hacked: We're looking into some next-gen fax machines
Want to use 3D XPoint DIMMs with Intel Purley Xeons? Wait a couple of years for second-gen
SUSE: Question. What do you call second-place in ARM enterprise server linux? Answer: Red Hat
Cohesity COO Riccardo Di Blasio cut loose by board after HR probe
Microsoft drops tools to help ingest and model big datasets
Mesosphere half-year pledge: Fresh DC/OS open source baking
'Every step your anti-theft tracker takes  I'll be watching you'
Surveillance by consent: Commissioner launches UK-wide CCTV strategy
Glued-shut IT wallets hindered UK govt's programmes  study
Adding trendy tech SIEM to a hybrid computing setup
Puppet shows its hand: All your software is belong to us
Putting Continuous Delivery to work in the enterprise
Atlassian promises elastic pipelines and premium plan
Akamai rides on the botnet's back to US$584 million quarter
IBM Australia didn't stress-test #censusfail router and blocked password resets
Benioff on being hacked: We're looking into some next-gen fax machines
Did Apple leak a photo of its new Macbook Pro in an OS update? Our survey says: Yes
And for our next trick, says Google while literally wheeling out a humongous tablet ...
Samsung patches Galaxy Note 7 to not explode as two-thirds of phones recalled
BlackBerry DTEK60: An elegant flagship for grown-ups
Low-power transistors hint at alternative to battery bonfires
Gravitational lensing event could provide ideal conditions for planet hunting
Newly discovered cave-dwelling creepy-crawly is four times the man* you are
Google gobbles startup that claims its tech is like a mind reader (gulp)
ARM: Hold my beer, we'll install patches for your crappy IoT gear for you
Microsoft's Cognitive Toolkit on GitHub in all its speech-recognising glory
Bloody robots! 860k public sector jobs to be automated by 2030, say researchers
Uber's robo-truck makes first delivery of ... Budweiser in Colorado
Accountant falls for sexy Nigerian email scammer, gives her 150k he cheated out of pal
Fancy a little kinky sex? GCHQ+NSA will know - thanks to ANGRY BIRDS
Evil spooks slurped EVERYTHING about your life from app's phone-home data
Pacemaker maker St Jude faces new security flaw claims from biz short-selling its stock
Smoking hole found on Mars where Schiaparelli lander, er, 'landed'
No matter who becomes US president, America's tech giants are going to be quids in
Some of the world's most popular smartphone applications are telling British and American intelligence agencies everything about you  from your location to your politics or whether you're part of the swinging set.
That's according to classified documents leaked by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden.
The dossier, published today by ProPublica and , show the NSA and its Brit counterpart GCHQ were working together on exploiting smartphones in 2007, the same year as the first iPhone launched. The NSA nearly quadrupled its budgets for such monitoring from $204m to $767m that year.
A top-secret report compiled by the NSA shortly after that time boasted the agency had collected so much information from phones running Google's mapping applications that "you'll be able to clone Google's database." In 2008 British intelligence reported "anyone using Google Maps on a smartphone is working in support of a GCHQ system."
Poorly secured mobile apps have proved to be a "golden nugget," according to a May 2010 NSA presentation: harvesting sensitive data sent over public networks by applications is not a problem, but it was a little trickier to tag the intercepted information in the agency's XKeyscore database so that analysts could easily pull up a person's records. In the same year a British analyst described the development of smartphone slurping as a "mobile surge," comparing it to the surge of US and allied troops into Iraq and Afghanistan.
A 2012 British intelligence document states that the immensely popular Angry Birds game from Finnish developer Rovio had become a useful source thanks to advertising code added by US firm Millennial Media.
Millennial's tracking software generates a personal record for each user that can store information from their political affiliation and sexual orientation to whether their marital state was single, married, divorced, engaged or "swinger." This information is used to target in-app ads more effectively, and can be collected by UK and US intelligence agencies for analysis, we're told.
The documents don't suggest that NSA and GCHQ staffers are directly hacking mobile applications. Instead it's made clear the snoopers are simply skimming and decoding sensitive data the apps collect and transmit back to their developers. One report noted that anyone updating Android on a device will leak about 500 slurpable records describing how the gadget was used by its owner.
NSA does not profile everyday Americans as it carries out its foreign intelligence mission, the agency said in a statement. Because some data of US persons may at times be incidentally collected in NSA's lawful foreign intelligence mission, privacy protections for US persons exist across the entire process, with similar protections for innocent foreign citizens.
GCHQ declined to comment on the allegations, but said its activities were compliant with today's UK law. Google and Millennial Media havent commented as yet.
Your tinfoil hat is useless  your browser lets spies into your mind
Other Snowden-sourced information published by NBC News today revealed [PDF] that in 2012 GCHQ developed technology, code named Squeaky Dolphin, to spy on people en masse as they used social networks and other big-name websites.
The British tapped into internet data cables running though the UK and scooped out Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Blogger visits to see what's trending online and where hotspots of interest spring up around the world in various topics.
The Human Science Operations Cell also compiled data on what a particular browser choice told them about a user's behavior. Internet Explorer users scored lowest in being open to new experiences but highest in "agreeableness" and "conscientiousness," while Firefox users are the most neurotic, apparently.
But Snowden, who gave his first TV interview for German network ARD on Sunday, claims that the NSA wasn't above hacking business systems if it felt the information would further US interests. He said that the German manufacturer Siemens was a particular favorite among spies in this regard, and that non-key German government targets may also have been infiltrated.
"What I can say is that we know that [German Chancellor] Angela Merkel was monitored by the NSA. But the question is how logical is it that she's the only one who was monitored, how likely is it that she was the German person the NSA was watching?" he said, Reuters reports.
"I'd say that it's not very likely that anyone who was watching the German government was only watching Merkel and not her advisers nor other government officials nor ministers, heads of industries or even local government officials."
Snowden said he no longer had any NSA documents himself, having passed them all on to journalists around the world. Despite death threats from certain excitable US intelligence operatives, Snowden said he was unconcerned for his safety.
"I'm still alive and don't lose sleep for what I did because it was the right thing to do," he added. 
HPC and HPDA for the Cognitive Journey with OpenPOWER
Box allows IT to oversee collaboration without inhibiting employee work. With an intuitive administrative console, Box provides a centralised view of content across your entire organisation.
You need your applications and data up and running  with zero downtime.
The hybrid cloud has been heralded as a promising IT operational model enabling enterprises to maintain security and control over the infrastructure on which their applications run.
Data and Analytics Maturity Model and Business Impact
How top performing enterprises use their IT investments to store, process, and use data to make more effective, real-time decisions.
It's nearly 2017 and JPEGs, PDFs, font files can hijack your Apple Mac, iPhone, iPad
Hacktivist crew claims it launched last week's DDoS mega-attack
Is Google using YouTube to put one over on Samsung?
Judge orders FBI to reveal whether White House launched 'Tor pedo' torpedo exploits
Finally, that tech fad's over: Smartwatch sales tank more than 50%
Democralypse Now? US election first battle in new age of cyberwarfare
Securing Office 365? There's always more you can do
DDoS attacks: For the hell of it or targeted  how do you see them off?
National Cyber Security Centre to shift UK to 'active' defence
NHS health apps project plan: Powered by your medical records
Speaking in Tech: Nope, sorry waiter. I won't pay with that card reader
Sign up to The Register to receive newsletters and alerts
Independent news, views, opinions and reviews on the latest in the IT industry. Offices in London, San Francisco and Sydney.
