Flash drive with employee data missing from Eastern Health office - Local - The Telegram
My Home - your complete source for real estate listings!
Nunnery Hill development will be contentious: Galgay
Flash drive with employee data missing from Eastern Health office
Eastern Health has announced a USB flash drive is missing from its human resources department.
According to a statement released this morning, a USB flash drive containing a spreadsheet  with data on 9,000 employees  went missing from an office in the department June 26.
On behalf of Eastern Health, I want to publicly apologize to our employees whose personal information was on the missing flash drive, said David Diamond, EasternHealth president and CEO, according to the statement. We take all breaches of privacy very seriously and are committed to exploring ways to further strengthen our privacy practices surrounding safe security measures and the storage of information on portable devices.
Eastern Health employee knew rules were broken by file access
Eastern Health discloses another "accidental" breach of privacy
The spreadsheet had the names, employee numbers and social insurance numbers of 3,300 employees, as well as names and employee numbers only of 5,700 more employees.
Eastern Health says the drive was last used June 17, two days before it was reported missing. An internal investigation has failed to turn up the drive, and the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner has been notified and has begun a formal investigation. Eastern Health says theres no evidence the information on the drive has been used for fraudulent purposes.
The health authority said it will start contacting by phone today the 3,300 employees whose social insurance numbers were on the spreadsheet, and send letters to the 5,700 other employees starting Monday. Eastern Health also said it will be providing information to employees to help protect themselves against identity theft.
dmaceachern@thetelegram.com, Twitter: @DanMacEachern
Another day, another problem at eastern health. All that changes are the incompetent people in charge.
Nalcor gets court order to arrest Muskrat Falls protesters
Nalcor asks Muskrat Falls protestors to return to safety zone
Two brothers charged with home break-ins, robberies
Nalcor gets court order to arrest Muskrat Falls protesters
Weekend actions show traction for Make Muskrat Right campaign
Should Premier Dwight Ball have returned to the province sooner to deal with the situation at Muskrat Falls?
Do not miss your latest complete newspaper edition.
Newfound Sound women's acapella harmony group are looking...
Canadian cultural icon, comedienne and one of the...
June 25, 1925 - October 23, 2016 Age 91 Years. With heavy hearts, we are
It is with the heaviest of hearts that we announce the passing of our wonderful
It is with broken hearts, but with many wonderful memories that we announce the passing
Surveyor / UAV Operator (Unoccupied Aerial Vehicle)
Transcontinental Media G.P.1100 Rene-Levesque Blvd. West, Montreal, QC H3B 4X9(514) 392-9000
