Drone spotted in Bible Hill raises safety, privacy concerns - Local - Truro Daily News
Drone spotted in Bible Hill raises safety, privacy concerns
BIBLE HILL - A drone spotted in Bible Hill has a resident and police concerned.
Drones have become increasingly popular, such as this one used by police. However, others, such as one that was spotted near a school area in Bible Hill this week, are considered a safety concern.
Regulations for keeping exotic pets are all over the chart in Canada, official says
Bearcats go up two games, with second extra-inning victory
Halifax police investigate after gunfire rings out in Dartmouth neighbourhood
Canadians living in 'medical limbo' push for federal strategy in fight against Lyme disease
Nattie Turner was outside of her home, on East Court Road, waiting for her children to get home from school around 3 p.m. on Tuesday when she heard a buzzing sound. When she looked up she saw a black object with extended sections and a bubble-like structure on the bottom.
"My first thought was, 'what is this thing?' And then I started walking slowly back to my house," she said. "It turned, then moved and followed me as I went to my deck. I went in for a phone and when I came back out it was gone."
She estimates the aircraft was about three feet wide and was just above tree level.
"I felt violated because it was watching me," she said. "I'm worried about safety and privacy. If there is a novice operating it there is a danger of it falling. What were they looking for in this area? This is near a school and was at the time of day when a lot of children are around. There are just so many questions around it."
Turner reported the incident to RCMP and they ask anyone with information to contact them.
"One concern for us if we're using RCMP drones is always traffic safety," said Cpl. Fraser Firth, of the Colchester RCMP. "They could come down, so we cordon off roads."
He said there are also privacy issues around the use of drones.
"Some of the offences we would explore with a drone being used are mischief, disturbing the lawful enjoyment of property and voyeurism," he added. "If anyone sees a drone or has any information on who might have been operating this one please contact us at 902-893-6820."
Truro police said there have been no similar incidents reported in the town.
Drones have become increasingly popular, such as this one used by police. However, others, such as one that was spotted near a school area in Bible Hill this week, are considered a safety concern.
I saw it here a few weeks ago on Glenwood drive...lol...same thing really.
I just didnt care, I brought my son outside to see it...I know whoever was manning it saw me because it just stayed there while I was pointing it out.
Guess we werent interesting enough because I havent seen it again.
How can anyone. expect privacy when they are out in public? If in a fenced backyard then maybe when out in public you shouldn't expect privacy.
So you think it's ok for these drones to fly around poking into peoples privacy and possibly stalking school children etc.?? Learning their after school habbits etc for unspeakable reasons??
Please tell me you are not in a position of influence or power
I personally own a professional class drone with still and motion shot capabilities. I have always been of the opinion that their should be an easy way to identify these machines. I typically operate mine in close range and most are aware that it's is mine and whats going on when i do. A drone being so close to a school at dismissal time or any time for that matter sets off all types of alarms in my mind. I think this is a matter for deep concern.
Saunders, Muriel Roberta, 91, Truro, NS, passed away Friday, October 21, 2016 in the Colchester
Scott, Deborah Debbie Irene  Bible Hill It is with heavy hearts we announce the
Nowe, Calvin James Sonny Jan 8, 1938  Oct 20, 2016 Calvin passed away peacefully
Licensed Journeyman (Carpenter)  Cobequid & Nova Families (Counties of Colchester & East Hants)
Do you plan to attend Nova Scotia Music Week events?
Do not miss your latest complete newspaper edition.
Money stolen from ATM at Truro Raceway went unreported
Excited fans prepare for the return of The Walking Dead
Local businesspeople honoured by Chamber of Commerce during Small Business Week
A distinctive landmark, Truro's Rainbow Motel fades into history
Local health care providers initiate Walk with a Doc
Brian MacLeod an exceptional all-around athlete and a great friend
Top driver Jody Jamieson to compete at Truro Raceway Sunday
A distinctive landmark, Truro's Rainbow Motel fades into history
Lafarge revisits former plan to burn used tires in cement kiln
Lafarge to hold public information session regarding tire burning at Brookfield cement plant
Attention nerds! Celebrate knowledge at the Grace's first...
Don't miss this amazing concert pianist on concert this...
Transcontinental Media G.P.1100 Rene-Levesque Blvd. West, Montreal, QC H3B 4X9(514) 392-9000
