Four McLean Hospital backup data tapes go missing, thousands affected
Researchers gain root access to Android devices using Rowhammer attacks
Revamped GM Bot mobile banking malware spotted in wild
Learning experiences that count (or that mean the most or really matter)
Mirai DDoS attacks not caused by state actors: FlashPoint
Locky ransomware distributors reduced to potty talk
Security and DevOps teams need closer integration to bake in security
More and more workers today are bringing their personal devices such as laptops, mobile phones and tablets to the office to use for work. While this practice leads to greater productivity, it can pose a security risk.
Cybersecurity preparedness requires threat intelligence information sharing
Argentina, the United States and Vietnam were among the top producers of zombie IP addresses following Russia.
Four McLean Hospital backup data tapes go missing, thousands affected
Four McLean Hospital backup data tapes go missing, thousands affected
Massachusetts-based McLean Hospital is notifying about 12,600 individuals that their personal information was on four unencrypted backup data tapes related to the Harvard Brain Tissue Resource Center (HBTRC) that have gone missing.
What type of personal information? Names, dates of birth, diagnoses and Social Security numbers.
What happened? The personal information was on four unencrypted backup data tapes related to the HBTRC that have gone missing.
What was the response? McLean Hospital has implemented encryption of all new backup tapes going forward, as well as enhancements to its process for handling and storage of HBTRC backup data tapes. All affected individuals are being notified.
Details: McLean Hospital learned of the incident on May 29. The backup data tapes contained information on individuals associated with the HBTRC in various capacities, including deceased tissue donors, individuals who registered as potential donors and their family members. McLean Hospital said specialized software, equipment and technical expertise would be required to access the information on the tapes.
Quote: Although to date, we have been unable to locate the missing backup data tapes, we have no reason to believe that any of the information on the tapes has been accessed or used inappropriately, a notification posted to the McLean Hospital website said.
Source: mcleanhospital.org, McLean Hospital Notifies Research Participants of a Privacy Incident, July 28, 2015.
Hundreds of Massachusetts General Hospital patients notified of data incident
PagerDuty requires password change for all customers following breach
Data on 5,300 Healthfirst members caught up in fraud scheme
UCLA Health attacked, data on up to 4.5 million individuals at risk
Orlando Health employee improperly accesses patient medical records
You must be a registered member of SC Magazine to post a comment.
PagerDuty requires password change for all customers following breach
Texas school district's student data potentially compromised
Katy Independent School District (ISD) in Texas is alerting select students that their information may have been compromised by a third-party vendor.
Data breach and ransomware hit Hutchinson Community Foundation
The Hutchinson Community Foundation in Kansas was hit with a data breach and ransomware attack.
Central Ohio Urology Group reports 300K records compromised
The Central Ohio Urology Group reported that in early August it became aware of an incident where an unauthorized posted patient and employee information to Twitter.
SC Magazine arms information security professionals with the in-depth, unbiased business and technical information they need to tackle the countless security challenges they face and establish risk management and compliance postures that underpin overall business strategies.
Copyright  2016 Haymarket Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorization.
Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of Haymarket Media's Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
