UK's News of the World closes after phone hacking scandal | Network World
Platforms in the cloud take heavy lifting out of architecture tasks
Step-by-step guide to setting up dual boot on your PC or laptop
UK's News of the World closes after phone hacking scandal
The newspaper is accused of hacking into the mobile voice mail of celebrities and crime victims
CTIA shares tips for preventing News Corp. (or anyone else) from hacking your...
How much do email list servers and related services cost?
The U.K.'s News of the World is closing admit allegations of staff members hacking into the mobile voice mail of celebrities and crime victims.News Corp. will close its weekly U.K. newspaper News of the World amid allegations that the tabloid hacked into the mobile voicemail accounts of celebrities, the British royal family, and crime victims.Sunday's edition of the 168-year-old News of the World will be the last, said James Murdoch, chairman and CEO of News Corp.'s Europe and Asia divisions and son of News Corp. owner Rupert Murdoch.INSIDER: Traditional anti-virus is dead: Long live the new and improved AV"The good things the News of the World does ... have been sullied by behaviour that was wrong," James Murdoch wrote in a announcement posted on the publication's website. "The News of the World is in the business of holding others to account. But it failed when it came to itself." Officials at the newspaper first believed that the voice mail hacking activities, first discovered in 2006, were confined to one reporter, Murdoch wrote."We now have voluntarily given evidence to the police that I believe will prove that this was untrue and those who acted wrongly will have to face the consequences," Murdoch added.There are two ongoing police investigations into the voice mail hacking allegations, Murdoch said.The newspaper closure comes as companies come under increased scrutiny in the U.S. and Europe for alleged tech-related privacy violations. Starting in 2010, Google faced investigations for Wi-Fi snooping by its Street View cars, and in recent months, privacy groups have raised concerns about how much geo-location data is collected smartphones running Google and Apple operating systems. Privacy groups have also complained about the amount of personal data that websites and advertising networks are collecting.Grant Gross covers technology and telecom policy in the U.S. government for The IDG News Service. Follow Grant on Twitter at GrantGross. Grant's e-mail address is grant_gross@idg.com.
Must read: Hidden Cause of Slow Internet and how to fix it
Be the first to comment on this article. Our Commenting Policies
Media fails to tell consumers about device flaws in Fridays internet outage
When reporting on Fridays DDoS attack, the national media should have warned consumers not to install...
Does Southwests new password commercial need to get away?
Who is most likely to buy Avayas networking business?
Newsletters Sign up and receive the latest news, reviews and trends on your favorite technology topics. Get our Daily News newsletter
The attacks that overwhelmed the internet-address lookup service provided by Dyn today were well...
By forcing Windows 10 on users, Microsoft has lost the tenuous trust and credibility users had in the...
Evolving communications in a dynamic Software Defined world
Banking IT Systems Management: Challenges and Solutions
Healthcare IT Systems Management: Challenges and Solutions
Was the Dyn DDoS attack actually a script kiddie v. PSN?
The massive DDoS attack that disrupted the internet address-lookup service Dyn last week was perhaps...
Answers to Is the internet broken? and other Dyn DDoS questions
A Q&A; on what caused the Dyn DDoS attacks and what to do to protect yourself and your network.
What every citizen should know about the state of our voting systems and the security of our elections....
Despite concerns about the proposed $85.4 billion merger of AT&T; and Time Warner, analysts expect it to...
Where do you stack up with your IT counterparts on cloud investment?
Copyright  1994 - 2016 Network World, Inc. All rights reserved.
This ad will close in 20 seconds. Continue to site 
