Spotify Revamps New Privacy Policy After User Backlash : TECH : Tech Times
Spotify Revamps New Privacy Policy After User Backlash
5 September 2015, 9:07 am EDT			 By Aaron Mamiit Tech Times
Spotify has revamped its new privacy policy, as company CEO Daniel Ek kept his promise to protect the privacy of the music streaming service's users.
Spotify has revamped its new privacy policy for a clearer explanation on how the music streaming service utilizes the data of its users, after the company faced backlash from the vague language that it used for the controversial policy that was released last month.
The new privacy policy, which took effect last Aug. 19, requiredusers to agree that their information which Spotify gathers will be used, shared and processed by the service, including media files, pictures, details of contacts, and the location of the user.
It was unclear on why Spotify would need such information in carrying out its music streaming service, but users were being forced to agree to the policy if they wanted to continue using Spotify.
The new privacy policy sparked outrage and criticism from users due to privacy concerns, which promptedSpotify CEO Daniel Ek to issue an apology to the public regarding the matter, clarifying certain aspects of the policy and promising to protect the privacy of the service's users.
"If you don't want to share this kind of information, you don't have to. We will ask for your express permission before accessing any of this data - and we will only use it for specific purposes that will allow you to customize your Spotify experience," explained Ek.
It seems that Ek is following through with his promise, as Spotify has now released a revamped updated privacy policy with a plain-language introduction that looks to be a clear statement on Spotify's principles and approach regarding user privacy.
"We hope it provides a healthy dose of clarity and context too," wroteEk in the Spotify blog post that announces the updated policy.
The preface states that Spotify will only collect data either to help run the music streaming service or to provide more features to users. For the second purpose, Spotify will be asking for the permission of the user before accessing data such as pictures, location, voice, data sharing or contacts. If the user would choose to allow Spotify to access such information, the user can at any time choose to revoke the permission.
Spotify said that the revamped privacy policy will be received by users over the next few days and weeks, including users that already agreed to the controversial version of the policy.
 2016 Tech Times, All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
Spotify Partners With Withings To Release The Aura Connected Alarm Clock For An Enhanced Sleep Experience
Spotify And Other Streaming Service Curators Are Reportedly Taking 'Playola' Payments For Playlist Placement
Country Music Star Jason Aldean On Spotify: 'Artists Don't Make Crap'
Spotify CEO Says Sorry After New Privacy Policy Makes Users See Red
Top 10 Artist Lists Show Audience Differences Between SoundCloud, Spotify And YouTube
Five Reasons You Should Buy An iPhone 6s And Not iPhone 7
The iPhone 7 has hit the stores but iPhone 6s still makes a compelling buy. Here's why.
Google Pixel And Pixel XL: Top 5 Drawbacks That May Be Deal Breakers For Some
How To Downgrade From Android 7.0 Nougat To Android Marshmallow 6.0.1 If You Own Google Nexus 6P, Nexus 5X
Samsung Galaxy Note 8 Confirmed: Upgrade Program For Galaxy Note 7 Owners To Next Year's Flagships Announced
Adolf Hitler's Secret Nazi Base In Arctic Discovered By Russian Scientists
LG V20 Owners Are Reporting That Camera Glass Breaks Easily: Fragile Components Used?
Android 7.0 Nougat Update: When Will Your HTC And LG Smartphones Get The Nougat Upgrade?
No Need To Pick Up Your Logitech Harmony Remote, Thanks To Amazon Alexa Support
Third Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge Catches Fire: Is It Time To Hit The Panic Button?
Napflix Is The Streaming Service Meant To Bore Users To Sleep
iPhone 8 To Rock Surprise Revolutionary Design Unlike Any Other Smartphone: Sounds Good, But Unlikely
More Than Half Of American Adults With Mental Health Issues Not Getting Needed Treatment
HTC 11 Render Images And Video Show Off Dual Edge Display And Waterproof Design [Video]
Blue Coral Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge Confirmed: Release Date On Nov. 5
'Pokmon GO' Map Tracker FastPokeMap Going Back Online
Samsung Considering Offering Galaxy Note 7 Customers Discounts On New Galaxy S8, S8 Plus And Note 8 Upon Release
How To Downgrade From Android 7.0 Nougat To Android Marshmallow 6.0.1 If You Own Google Nexus 6P, Nexus 5X
Android 7.0 Nougat: Here's A List Of Phones That Will Receive The Android 7.0 OS Update
Your Mouth Bacteria May Be Whats Causing Your Migraine
Mars Chocolate Will Launch Caramel M&Ms; To The Delight Of Candy Lovers Everywhere This Spring
Parental Smartphone Use Affects Kids: Heres How Plugged-In Parenting May Cause Tension In The Family
Americans Are Empathetic: US Ranks In Top 10 Countries With Most Empathy
Batman Is Now Saving Kids In The UK From The Creepy Killer Clowns Roaming Around The Cities
#FreeJulian: Netizens Rally Behind WikiLeaks Founder Julian Assange After Ecuador Shut Down His Internet Access
Watch This Terrifying Video Of A Great White Shark Breaching
An All-Seeing Donald Trump Zoltar Machine Is Telling America's Fortune Across New York City
Lady Gaga And James Corden Caught Filming Carpool Karaoke Singing One Of Her Biggest Hits (Video)
Tech Science Health Culture Reviews Features Videos
About Us | Contact Us | Content Licensing | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | Media Kit | BrandSpin
Top Stories From Tech Times Delivered To Your Inbox.
