The PlayStation Breach: Why You Should Remain Calm - 
Fans of Sonys PlayStation already were upset that they couldnt go play their favorite video games with their friends on the Internet. The PlayStations online network has been down since last week in the aftermath of a hacking incident.
Now, the networks 77 million account holders have learned that the hackers obtained
personal information, like their names, street addresses, e-mail addresses and PlayStation account user names and passwords.
A red-faced Sony said it couldnt be sure, but that credit card numbers and expiration dates might have been compromised, too. The company said it was warning account holders about the possible credit card breach in an abundance of caution.
In posts on underground hacker Web sites, some hackers have claimed to have credit card information from PlayStation account holders.
So what should you really be worried about, if youre a PlayStation network account holder? Obviously, no one wants to have their credit card information taken and possibly used for nefarious purposes.
But the odds of serious financial damage from the incident appear to be low.
For starters, the hackers in this type of situation are often looking for notoriety, rather than to resell financial information. (One group known for doing this sort of thing disclaimed responsibility for the PlayStation hack but sounded sort of disappointed. For once, we didnt do it.) And even if you were unlucky enough to be one of the 77 million card numbers whose account information ended up being
resold for criminal purposes, youd see the suspicious charges on your account.
We all know by now that we should be monitoring our credit card statements regularly. Right?
The incident does suggest that its probably best to use credit cards for continuing automatic payments, like subscriptions for gaming networks and other services, rather than a debit card, if thats an option. At least with a credit card, you get a warning that somethings not right, and your liability for unauthorized use is limited. With a debit card, the funds could just vanish from your bank account. Even with a debit card, though, your losses are generally limited if you report the problem to your bank promptly. (Again, youre supposed to be watching for this sort of thing.)
So it seems as though following the standard advice about preventing identity theft - monitor your accounts and report problems promptly  should allay concerns about serious problems arising from this incident. Do you agree?
Updated to reflect talk on underground hacker web sites in which hackers claim to have credit card data.
Thursday Reading: Should Your Doctor Be on Facebook?
Personal finance features and news coverage from can now be found on the Your Money page.Readmore
Friday Reading: What Parents Mean by Part-Time Work
What parents mean by part-time work, why the future of your Nook books is uncertain, free theater in the park (and parking lot) and other consumer-focused news from .Readmore
How faith can affect mental health therapy, freshening up a kitchen for a home sale, creating your own personal weather station and other consumer-focused news from .Readmore
Travel warnings are issued on Egypt, the Ford F-250 is now thieves favorite target, regulators crack down on abusive debt collection and other consumer-focused news from .Readmore
Computer Snag Limits Insurance Penalties on Smokers
A software glitch involving the new health care law may mean that some smokers wont bear the full brunt of tobacco-user penalties that could have made their premiums much higher, at least for the first year.Readmore
