Google glitch: Chat users say messages are going to wrong recipients - NY Daily News
Get Our Newsletter A daily blend of the most need-to-know Daily News stories, delivered right to your inbox.
Get the latest breaking news, entertainment, sports and more.Download Our App Subscribe to the newspaper, our e-edition, or both.Subscribe
Football Basketball Baseball Hockey Soccer College High School More Sports
Google glitch: Chat users complain messages are going to the wrong recipients Google glitch: Chat users say messages are going to wrong recipients
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Thursday, September 26, 2013, 10:27 AM
Users reported that messages sent via Google's chat features were going to the wrong recipients Thursday. (Jenson/Bloomberg)
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Thursday, September 26, 2013, 10:27 AM
Google's chat features went haywire Thursday, routing some users messages to the wrong recipients.
After receiving reports about a Google glitch, the Internet search giant said it was working on the problem and its services "are gradually returning to normal.
We will update when full service is restored, Google later said on its Service Status Dashboard page.
The Internet brand didn't immediately explain the reason for the defect in its messaging platform, but the bug appears to be messing with folks who use Google Talk and are trying to communicate with those using the upgraded Google Hangout, TechCrunch reported.
Those affected are venting online about the messaging mix up  with some saying it is compromising their privacy and creating a terrifying situation.
Alarmed to find @GoogleChat conversation with an @itvnews colleague has been relayed to another colleague via email! #privacy #sortitout
GTalk msgs are going to multiple people. I chat with A and B gets my msgs. I try to explain to B and C gets the msgs.. #fixitGoogle #Google
my gchats are going to multiple people when i try to gchat one person. THIS IS A TERRIFYING SITUATION.
Privacy remains a touchy subject for Google, which earlier this yearagreed to settle with 38 stateswhich sued after the companys Street View mapping cars were found to have collected peoples personal data.
The Mountain View, Calif.-based Internet company settled a suit with 38 states and D.C. after its Street View mapping venture came under fire for collecting people's personal data via WiFi.
Googles Gmail program has also been criticized after an outraged watchdog group said the company is reading users emails.
Google doesnt deny scanning emails for advertising purposes but has said it uses an algorithm and that no humans read your email.
Get Daily News stories, delivered to your inbox. Sign Up
Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest YouTube
Support & Contact Contact Us Careers Media Kit Site Map
Terms of Use Ad Choices Terms of Service Privacy Policy
 Copyright 2016 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
