Runkeeper is secretly tracking you around the clock and sending your data to advertisers - Android Authority
Android DevelopmentApps & GamesThe BestCell Phone PlansDealsFeaturesForumsGiveawaysHow ToNewsReviewsVRContact usAboutAdvertiseNewsletters
NewsDealsApps & GamesReviewsThe BestHow ToForumsSectionsNewsDealsApps & GamesReviewsThe BestHow ToForums
Best portable projectors of 2016!								Runkeeper is secretly tracking you around the clock and sending your data to advertisersby:Kris CarlonMay 13, 2016 1.5K 114
1340FitnessKeeper, the company behind running app Runkeeper, is in hot water in Europe. The company will receive a formal complaint on Friday from the Norwegian Consumer Council for breaching European data protection laws. It turns out that Runkeeper tracks its users location all the time  not just when the app is active  and sends that data to advertisers.
See also: 10 best running apps for Android9 The NCC, a consumer rights watchdog, is conducting an investigation into 20 apps terms and conditions to see if the apps do what their permissions say they do and to monitor data flows. Tinder has already been reported to the Norwegian data protection authority for similar breaches of privacy laws. The NCCs investigation into Runkeeper discovered that user location data is tracked around the clock and gets transmitted to a third party advertiser in the U.S. called Kiip.me.The NCCs digital policy director, Finn Myrstad, told Ars Technica: Everyone understands that Runkeeper tracks users while they exercise, but to continue after the training has ended is not okay. Not only is it a breach of privacy laws, we are also convinced that users do not want to be tracked in this way, or for information to be shared with third party advertisers. It is clear that Runkeeper needs to have a good think about how it treats users data and privacy.But it doesnt stop there: the investigation reportedly uncovered multiple breaches of user privacy. The NCC now wants Norways data protection agency to take action on its claims. Unfortunately, because Runkeeper has no European subsidiaries  its a U.S.-based company  the data protection agency has limited powers to impose sanctions on the company.This isnt the first time weve heard about apps taking more than they should and trying to make a buck off it. Its good to know that investigations like this are being conducted, if for no other reason than that, armed with the knowledge of what an apps developers are up to, we can decide whether we want to continue supporting them or not.Does this surprise you? Would you continue to use an app guilty of this?Posted InApps & Games, NewsTagsData Breach, Fitness, PrivacyData Breach, Fitness, PrivacySource:Ars Technica
AbbyZFresh Already deleted the app. Thanks AA for letting us know.
Anon 1st tinder, now runkeeper. american companies are getting to be like chinese companies.
Mohammed Algarny OMG, Im using it in the last 3 years. Guys, Is there a good alternative?
Chris Is there a way to do interval training in Strava (time based usually). I have tried Nike, MapMyRun, Runtastic and others and cant find any that let you set up workouts the RunKeeper does. I am definitely considering changing apps now though.
bat0nas Both strava and Runkeeper are nkt as good as Endomondo.
Chris Is there a way to do interval training in Endomondo (time based usually). I have tried Nike, MapMyRun, Runtastic and others and cant find any that let you set up workouts the way RunKeeper does. I am definitely considering changing apps now though.
benoita74 What about Runtastic ? Works great and is owned by Adidas, so it shouldnt be too shady I guess
Matthew Levine Yes  do it yourself  unless you lack basic intelligence, you REQUIRE apps why??
Mohammed Algarny For me I dont have time to do the math and calculate how many kilometers I ran and how many calories I burned. These apps makes your life easier. If you do all these things yourself, then BRAVO my friend, good for you!
Howard Stern  should update their app name to Runkreeper.
3165dwayne Slogan: You can run but you cant hide Ill show myself out.
Chris Didnt RunKeeper just get bought by Reebok? Is this a new thing that they started or has RunKeeper always sold data like this?
Luis OMG an app that uses your personal data for advertisement, I cant believe it!!
Chris If thats what they were using it for that would be understandable. Except RunKeeper doesnt have ads in it (aside from wanting you to buy stuff from their site or sign up for one of their events occasionally  none of which require specific location tracking). So who are they selling the data to and for what reason?
Luis There are a lot of apps that are monitoring everything in the device, calculator that needs locations, read messages, etc. So these news are not new, it just prove how easily you can manipulate the people
Chris right and I dont download calculators that need my location and contacts. and with the new Andorid permissions, you could just disable that on a per app basis even if the app doesnt need my location.And its not so much that they are tracking you, its that they didnt tell you they track you. I own a smart phone, I accept the fact that Google tracks my location and serves me ads, but they tell me that up front. I know they are doing and it and why that are doing it and they do it anonymously. Is RunKeeper doing it anonymously? We dont know because they only ever said they track your run, not 24/7 tracking.I get a lot of value out of google tracking too, estimated arrival times, google reward money, traffic updates, etc. etc. I see no value in RunKeeper tracking me all the time, especially since their app doesnt serve ads, thats the difference.
km75sr If you have a calculator app that has access to your messages and location you need to un-install it and download a different calculator app ASAP
deepdvd No app secretly tracks you. It shows right at the top of my screen if location is being used. Talk about click-bait. Oh no! A fitness tracking app that knows where I am? Oh wait. Thats the point. To know where I am. Just swipe the app away when youre done if youre concerned.
John  It turns out that Runkeeper tracks its users location all the time  not just when the app is active  and sends that data to advertisersPlease read the article.
deepdvd I did. The app cant track you when it isnt running. You totally missed my point.
MJ You still didnt read the article. LOL The tracking part is only part of the issue. They are selling the info to a third party. #facepalmRegardless, swiping the app away is not going to stop it from tracking you.
Corey Kinard Why? I want to see the original reports and tests. Well find out Friday I guess. They must have found a security breach in Android so they could secretly track you without the notification going off.
Reed You have no clue how background processes work.
Corey Kinard Enlighten me. Does it not need to ask permission? If the app is off, youre telling me itll what? Wake lock the device and grab location data without the slightest hint of doing so?
deepdvd Android (Marshmallow, at least) shows the location in use icon at the top of the screen. My whole point is that if the icon isnt there, its not tracking. Nothing is. I doubt you are implying that it is tracking and Android OS doesnt know.
km75sr From the article:It turns out that Runkeeper tracks its users location all the time  not just when the app is active and sends that data to advertisers.The NCCs digital policy director, Finn Myrstad, told Ars Technica: Everyone understands that Runkeeper tracks users while they exercise, but to continue after the training has ended is not okay.So yeah.according to the article the app can and does track you WHEN IT ISNT RUNNING!Are you sure you read the whole article. I dont see how anyone could miss this off they actually read the article. Or am I missing something?
I didnt miss anything. When I swipe away the app after I finish using Runkeeper, it stops running. Its not tracking you when it isnt running. I dont mean in the background, I dont mean closed. The way I know its not tracking me after I swipe it away is that the Android location icon is GONE. Im not saying the article is wrong. I know it definitely doesnt stop automatically when closed, which is I why I STOP it by swiping it away. Some apps dont stop that way, but Runkeeper does.
deepdvd So youre implying there is a service that it starts all by itself in the background after you kill it that tracks you without the location icon showing in the status bar?
If so, then yes, I would say thats secretly tracking you. If not, NO.
Kevin Mogee You may have read it, but youre not understanding the words. Lets make it simple. The app is tracking you even when its not running. Do you get it now?
deepdvd I got it from the start. I apologize for not being clear enough. If its not running (yeah, I mean NOT running) and the location icon doesnt show in the status bar, its not tracking you. I dont mean active, I dont mean closed in the background.
Chris Its called background data. Lots of apps run when closed Thats how push notifications etc. Work. But, most apps dont hide what they are doing
I mean, not running. My point is that Android lets you know that something is using your location with the icon. Its not very secret if you can see something using your location. Im also fairly certain that it doesnt start up automatically if you kill it.
ASYOUTHIA At least this app doesnt spy on you while youre in the Target bathroom like all the dudes in dresses that identify as female so they can record you as youre using the bathroom
chromeronin Android not? Does it affect the iOS app too?
jxkfkd I recommend Sportractive. Intervall, Statistics, Export/Import feature. No shady permissions, good GPS Signal, different Sports and so on. An well No ads.
Dom data protection agency could, theoretically, force Google/Apple to withdraw app from their stores.
Norwegian Consumer Council may have limited ability to impose sanctions, it could have more reach if it choose to.
If they released an app on the Google Play store that tracked my installed apps and warning me when I have an app with a known privacy issue, I probably would use their app and act accordingly to the reports it provides.
This could eventually send a message to app distributors that if they dont take the NCC seriously, they risk loosing a large chunk of their install base.
Matthew Levine I aggregate up to 8 data sources and develop my own estimation of weather behavior  on a national basis, not just local  accurate 90-95% of the time up to 3 days out in under 15 minutes!!!. I am a custom logistics courier and need this for trip planning. I need an app for this why??? Meteorology is a hobby of mine that also works for my work.
Bungle Apps are for lazy idiots. Whenever I want to contact a friend to arrange a meeting I simply walk 76 miles to their house and hand deliver a note because using software to increase efficiency is a stupid idea.
Gaetano its 2016..lots of apps are free because we are the product. its the information economy. Im not surprised that it happensthey have to make money somehow.
Chris Yes but a lot of those apps make money off in app ads and are upfront about what they are doing. ALSO, runkeeper has a ~10/month sub they make money off of.
Gaetano I agree with youthey have other ways to make money and they shouldnt sell customers info. Im just not surprised that this happens. Most of the time, downloading an app requires some permissions that really shouldnt be required. Like Vsco cam asked me the permission to access my device ID and call informationI mean I need it to take pictures. what do you need my contact list for?
Matthew Levine What did idiots do before simple math and basic note taking abilities developed???
abazigal Any idea if this affects both the android and iOS apps?
jay tracking me? no thank you but do we have a choice when we want service very cheap or free? lets say Facebook its free service and they tracking us all the time. i am not on Facebook anymore because of that. but no way to hide from Facebook. ether instagram or whats app. is like you are not on Facebook than we get you somewhere. AA should write something how companies tracking us. is not only runkeeper. if service are free than just think about how they get all the money?
dadzilla I would think that the theft of this data would be actionable, legally speaking.
retifrav Nevertheless, if the issue really exists, then Id like to switch to another app even on iOS to boycott the company. But there are none decent alternatives and I have a lot of saved activities in their database, dont want to lose it.
Daeveren If the app keeps running in background, then you are reporting the data as well, it counts as using the app.
I suppose it does run in background, just so it can keep tracking you while youre having other apps on the screen (music player, facebook etc).
retifrav Only when you have some activity in progress. And you can tell by seeing a blue stripe with the app name in the top of the screen. And also by seeing the Location icon (which also is there only when some activity is in progress). So, no geolocation usage at background for iOS.
Jonathon Rios This is a big surprise to me. The app was always a great tool for me and was fairly accurate compared to a piece of equipment made to track runs. Their customer service was good too, I never expected this because it didnt seem to affect my battery life at all. Oh well.
Thomas Halvorsen The NCC now wants Norways data protection agency to take action on its claims. Unfortunately, because Runkeeper has no European subsidiaries  its a U.S.-based company  the data protection agency has limited powers to impose sanctions on the company.Except, you know, the sort of sanctions that the ECC could impose. Like stopping distribution of the app entirely from the EU region, like both google and apples respective stores have done on earlier occasions at the behest of the ECC.But thats not a big deal, is it?
Load CommentsSunday GiveawayGoogle Pixel XL International Giveaway!Buyers GuidesBest Android phones (October 2016): our picks, plus a giveawayBest Android tablets (October 2016)Best Bluetooth SpeakersBest Bluetooth EarbudsBest Waterproof Bluetooth SpeakersBest Noise Cancelling HeadphonesBest AppsSORT10 best cloud storage services and apps for Android of 201615 best free Android apps of 201610 best new Android apps of August 2016!15 best free Android games of 2016!10 best new Android games of August 2016!15 best MMORPGs on Android10 most challenging games for AndroidPopular(Update: First Nougat update rolls out!) Android 7.0 Nougat update: when will you get it? COPYRIGHT  2016 ANDROIDAUTHORITY, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. ABOUT | CONTACT
