244,000 German houses to be blurred out in Google Street View
We do also share that information with third parties for
244,000 German houses to be blurred out in Google Street View
When it comes to privacy, Google Street View has been a delicate service for the Mountain View tech giant to handle around the world. This is particularly true in Germany, where it has been required to offer the option for citizens to have their houses removed.
Googles Street View software automatically blurs out faces and vehicle numberplates to help preserve individuals privacy. In Germany, where the service is yet to launch, houses were added as an optional extra that citizens could apply to have blurred. Initialy they had to send a letter to Google, although more recently an online form wasintroducedto make the process easier.
TNW NYC is our New York technology event for anyone interested in helping their company grow.
The deadline for users to apply for this extra privacy measure ended six days ago and Google has nowrevealed exactly how many people want to live in a blurry Street View house. In the 20 German cities in which Street View is launching in first, 244,237 opt-outs from a total of 8,458,084 households were received, equalling a 2.89% rate.
So, why do some Germans fear their houses being featured on Googles service? Quoted recently by Deutsche Welle, newspaper publisher Georg Schaeff explained: The problem with Google Street View is that Google  without asking  has gone and photographed German houses and streets and people do not know how the information is used. Deutsche Welle went on to explain that The countrys highest court has affirmed citizens rights to control who has their personal information and how its used.
In short, Germany is one strict place for privacy. Still, with an opt-out rate of under 3% its clear that many Germans either arent too concerned, or simply werent aware of the issue.
Google says that Street View will launch in twenty German cities within weeks.
Martin Bryant was Editor-at-Large at The Next Web. He left the company in April 2016 for pastures new. You can find him on
Twitter, on Snapchat as Martinsfp, subscribe to him on Facebook and visit his personal site. He's based in Manchester, UK and has a thing for quirky American music and Japanese video games.
Here's how wealthy you'd be if you bought Apple stock instead of the PowerBook 100
Someone made earrings to catch Apple's AirPods when they inevitably fall out
Pikachu dresses up as Mario for this weird Nintendo collaboration
Old CRT TVs make for interesting musical instruments
This weird Twitter bot generates the best and worst sexts you'll ever see
King of the Hill intro gets the pixel art treatment, and it's glorious
Could virtual and augmented reality ads be used to indoctrinate us?
Someone made earrings to catch Apple's AirPods when they inevitably fall out
iPhone 7 vs Google Pixel: Google Assistant is better than Apple's Siri
Trump forgot to register critical domains and he's not getting them back
FYI: Facebook Messenger now supports PayPal transactions
Stay tuned with our weekly recap of whats hot & cool by our CEO Boris.
Wire chat app takes on Snapchat with self-destruct messages
Apple just leaked the new MacBook Pro, including that OLED touch panel
'Microsoft Teams' is the next Slack competitor (probably)
Duet Display now lets you turn your iPad Pro into a graphics tablet
Marketing the TNW Way #16: Using Google Tag Manager in AMP
What makes 500 Startups Dave McClure a Super Angel  and why you should care
These ASCII art prints put some \_()_/ on your wall
Meet the Martian Notifier: A stylish smartwatch thats easy on your wallet (76% off)
Could virtual and augmented reality ads be used to indoctrinate us?
Apple Timelapse: Watch 20 years of Apple.com's visual history in 3 minutes
What to expect from Microsoft's Windows 10 event on October 26
London calling! Link plans to bring its free gigabit Wi-Fi access points to the UK
Netflix and Drugs: Netflix CEO contemplates the future of entertainment
Bonjour is a smart alarm clock powered by artificial intelligence
Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing about.
Sit back and let the hottest tech news come to you by the magic of electronic mail.
Prefer to get the news as it happens? Follow us on social media.
Got two minutes to spare? We'd love to know a bit more about our readers.
