Parents, is it OK to spy on your child's online search history?
https://www.theguardian.com/sustainable-business/2015/nov/05/parents-children-online-search-history-microsoft-windows-10-privacy
 Can giving parents detailed activity reports of their child’s online search terms be harmful to young people looking for information on sensitive topics such as religion, sexuality, gender or domestic abuse? When Microsoft this summer launched its new Windows 10 feature that lets parents see what their children get up to online, this was one of the criticisms it encountered. Microsoft has since welcomed feedback and promised an update, with more appropriate default settings for teenagers. However, it is not the only service provider offering this level of parental control. Most security software companies today sell “family” products, many including reports, notifications and video supervision. But is it right to spy on your child?  The UN convention on the rights of the child stipulates that children have a right to privacy and a right to information. They also have a right to protection from all types of violence and exploitation – and there lies the rub. With a young generation more internet-savvy than their parents, ensuring online safety for minors surfing an ever-expanding web becomes a hard task. Today’s parents don’t have an older generation to turn to for tech advice, so many turn to parental control software instead.   Related: The knives are out for Essena O’Neill. I say she’s a teenage role model | Deborah Orr    Recent research [pdf] commissioned for Norton by Symantec, a provider of antivirus and security software, shows that 46% of British parents worry that they don’t know what their children are doing online. Nick Shaw, Norton’s general manager of Europe, the Middle East and Africa, is one of those worrying parents. Perhaps predictably, he uses parental control software, including reports. “I’m not looking at what they’re doing day to day, I’m just checking to make sure that they’re safe,” he says. He emphasises that he uses Norton’s family feature alongside face-to-face discussions with his children, and encourages other parents to do the same. Raj Samani, chief technology officer at Intel Security, previously McAfee, applies a family protection pack with informed consent and says his children approve of his monitoring because he is transparent about the reasons for it.  “My daughter tried to communicate with somebody and I got the notification. And actually what she was doing was unsafe so I ended up having a conversation with her, explaining the concept of anonymity.” Shaw and Samani both have children aged 11-16, the age that 61% of British parents believe is when their children are most vulnerable online. Shaw says parents’ product demands depend on their child’s age: parents of young children often want to monitor screen time, whereas those with teenagers raise concerns about social media. “We build a tool that allows parents flexibility to do what they want,” says Shaw.  Samani says parents and children do need to have a discussion about the when monitoring should stop: “To me I think it comes down to a point where have you got that level of understanding and maturity.” Cyber security consultant Dr Jessica Barker questions whether parental monitoring is fair on children, and says it can intrude into their privacy. Referencing research by Professor Sonia Livingstone on internet governance and children’s rights, she goes so far as to say it can be harmful.  “If [children] feel they are being monitored that undermines any kind of relationship of trust. They might be using the internet in a healthy way to get information and support, and feel that they are not able to do that because they are being monitored.” She brings up the issue of teenagers wanting to explore their gender or sexuality in private. If parents have a problem with that, or even use filters blocking LGBT sites, that could cut off access to something hugely helpful, a service previous generations didn’t have. One young man, who wants to remain anonymous, said that his homosexuality was outed to his unsupportive parents by parental control software. “They didn’t say they had seen what I had looked at but they hinted very strongly at it in conversation,” he said, adding that he soon learned how to work around his parent’s system.    Related: How do I keep my children safe online? What the security experts tell their kids    Barker says: “There’s certainly evidence that suggests that teenagers who know they are being monitored at home will look at a friend’s device. And then they don’t have someone to talk to about it.” So do software companies consider these issues when creating their services? “Absolutely,” says Samani. “We’ll always recommend that the reporting and the communication for children should be used as a vehicle to begin or continue that dialogue with children. Shaw says Norton “looks at every aspect when designing a tool”, but adds that the primary focus is protecting the child. “At the end of the day it’s a tool … How people use the tool is up to them.” When it comes to balancing privacy and protection the key concepts that emerge are education, conversation, consent and the fact that the internet offers lots of opportunities for children – positive and negative. As for how far parental control should go, our anonymous gay man sums it up well: “Computers shouldn’t do the parenting.” 
