George Brandis concedes website visits will be saved for two years
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/aug/06/george-brandis-concedes-websites-saved-two-years
George Brandis has conceded the government will require telecommunications companies to retain for two years records of all websites visited by their customers. Guardian Australia can reveal the controversial plan caused angry scenes in cabinet on Tuesday. After a day of mixed messages about exactly what data the government wanted to be retained, the attorney general also revealed to Sky News the government was “in discussion” with telcos about how its plan would treat Skype or services like Facetime and Google chat. Cabinet ministers learned the national security committee had decided to proceed with the data retention plan from Tuesday morning’s newspapers, and Guardian Australia can reveal it caused a heated discussion in cabinet that morning, as the communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, became exasperated and angry at the lack of factual information about how it would work in practice. In an interview on Sky that appeared to contradict earlier government statements and was quickly distributed by the Labor opposition, Brandis was asked whether websites visited by an internet user would be part of the data retained. He replied that it “wouldn’t extend to, for example, web surfing so what people are viewing on the internet is not going to be caught” but added “what will be caught is the web address they communicate to”. “The web address is part of the metadata … What the security agencies want to know is the electronic address of the websites … every website has an electronic address, when a connection is made between one computer terminal and a web address, that fact and the time of the connection and duration of the connection is what we mean by metadata in that context. “But when you visit a website people browse from one thing to the next, there won’t be a capacity to access that, that is not what we are interested in.” Asked whether social media would be included in the plan, Brandis said “please understand what has been decided is an in-principle decision, the extent to which social media will be included in this is under discussion at the moment.” Asked whether that would include things like Skype, Facetime or Google Chat, he said “those are the things we are in discussion about … we want to maintain the sharp distinction between metadata and content … and … sometime that distinction is blurred and that is why we are developing protocols to try to ensure the integrity of that distinction is maintained.” Asked whether terrorist conversations via Skype could be caught by the scheme, Brandis said “we want it to be caught, but in terms of data retention, not all Skype conversations are going to correspond to the description of metadata.” Tuesday’s pre-cabinet reports said Brandis and Turnbull would be developing an urgent interim plan for data retention, but since the cabinet meeting the prime minister, Tony Abbott, and Brandis have been taking the lead in explaining the decision. Earlier on Wednesday government officials had clarified that telecommunication companies would be required to store a “uniform or standard” amount of their customers’ metadata for two years.
