Twitter's retargeting service emphasises need for businesses to be social ready
https://www.theguardian.com/media-network/media-network-blog/2013/jul/31/twitter-advertising-retargeting-social-media
In the last two weeks, Twitter has become the latest social media platform to offer brands the ability to retarget sponsored tweets to its users, which has once again raised the debate on online data privacy. Brands in the US will soon be piloting the ability to retarget their sponsored tweets to Twitter users via their news feeds, meaning that once youve viewed a pair of boots on Amazon, you might see a Tweeted ad pop up for them or a similar product a few days later underneath your tweets from your favourite Prince Philip spoof Twitter account. Since Twitter introduced advertising onto its platform, it has been making brand messaging more targeted to users. But with the privacy debate currently raging over PRISM and consumers feeling that the internet giants are collecting ever more of their personal data for advertising, is now a good time to tell social account holders that their encrypted email addresses and cookies will be used to advertise to them on Facebook and Twitter? People are always going to be wary about how their data is being used. Users of social media are becoming increasingly clued up about how their data is shared and how brands are able to target them. They are aware that advertisers use their behavioural data for targeting purposes. Secondly, from a brand perspective, Twitters decision to trial retargeting will open up new ways of tapping into your key audience to figure out which is the most relevant content for them. However, brands must be cautious what they are saying to its consumer base and they need to figure out exactly what it is they want from social media. Whether the aim is to showcase new products or update on their latest activity, brands need to expertly filter the messages theyre giving out to potential consumers. It is very easy to fall into the trap of consumer interaction and get it wrong. Users are often not forgiving and will jump on brands that send them content they feel is not right for them. Twitter is a great tool for instant access to public opinion in real-time. But if brands put a foot wrong, they face their biggest critics and there have been many cases of brands getting a backlash response. The risk brands face is that if users receive a message they dont like, they can just as easily and quickly respond with their views – not just for the brand to see but to a large proportion of its consumer base too. Retargeting will better suit brands which havent built up a strong social profile to date and will become another quantifiable channel to reach lots of consumers in one go. What brands need to be clear on, however, is their enduring strategy beyond that targeted tweet and the kind of continued approach they will take to users in future. Can your social media team handle the incoming requests? Can you be as fast as you need to be in responding? Twitter users look for relationships; they look to follow brands and people that bring something useful and for content they can share into their lives. Brands would do well to use this kind of facility to be as creative as possible, to ensure maximum sharing. To make Twitters new offering work, brands need to ask themselves what they aim to achieve by using sponsored tweets or Facebook posts. The important thing is to establish an on-going dialogue with your user base which is different to any other form of advertising. Those who do it well will become more favourable in this space but it will take much trial and error to find the happy balance. Ellie Edwards-Scott is managing director of QUISMA. Get more articles like this sent direct to your inbox by signing up for free membership to the Guardian Media Network – brought to you by Guardian Professional.
