Papers plan European legal action if they are penalised for regulation stance
https://www.theguardian.com/media/2013/oct/10/newspapers-appeal-europe-press-regulation
The countrys largest newspaper groups plan to mount a European legal challenge if they are penalised for not signing up to the governments royal charter backed press regulator. They fear they will face increased legal costs in libel and privacy actions in the high court under a carrot and stick incentive measure that could come into force if the government does not enable them to self-regulate in a way that is recognised by a royal charter to be finalised on Friday. Under a law already been written into section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act newspapers and magazines will not be able to recover the costs of a high court case they win, if they have not first gone to an arbitration unit in an approved regulator. In particularly seriously cases of libel or breaches of privacy, newspapers would also face exemplary or punitive damages on top of libel damages. Newspapers already face bills of between £500,000 and £1m for lengthy libel cases and feel an increased cost risk will have a chilling effect on journalism everywhere. Press industry insiders said if the proposals on legal costs and examplary damages are not revised, they will consider challenging the governments press regulation regime at the European court of human rights. I dont see what choice we have, said one newspaper executive. They should expect newspapers to challenge them. You have to go to Europe as the consequences are so bad in terms of costs and exemplary damages that you cant just sit there and take them. The largest newspaper publishers, including the owners of the Daily Mail, the Sun and the Daily Telegraph, have already expressed deep disappointment that the government has rejected their version of a new press regulator underpinned by royal charter. They said it is regrettable that they will have no further say in the alternative backed by the three main parties and Hacked Off, the group that campaigns for stricter press regulation. Stig Abell, the managing editor of the Sun, told BBCs The World at One on Wednesday that the governments decision to reject the press proposal without room for further negotiation raised the prospect of two scenarios: the press sets up its own regulator but it does not get approval by the governments recognition panel; or a regulator that does meet the government criteria for approval is set up but no newspapers sign up. Newspapers rarely give public detail of costs but in a speech to the Society of Editors in 2008 Paul Dacre, editor the Daily Mail, told of a case in which the papers stablemate, the Mail on Sunday, fought a case against Martyn Jones, an MP whom it alleged had sworn in the Commons. The paper decided to fight the case but lost and had £5,000 awarded against it. The MPs lawyers claimed costs of £387,855 – solicitors costs of £68,340, plus 100% success fees, barristers costs of £63,250, plus 100% success fees, VAT and libel insurance of £68,250. [Mail on Sunday publisher] Associateds costs were £135,987, making a total of £520,000 costs in a case that awarded damages of just £5,000 in a dispute over a simple matter of fact, Dacre said. • To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@theguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly for publication. • To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook.
