SECURITY ANALYSIS. By Benjamin Graham and David L. Dodd. 725 pp. New York -
Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill Book Company. $5. - Review - NYTimes.com
campaign: nyt2016_bar1_digi_cpb_67LXL -- 283987, creative: nyt2016_bar1_digi_cpb_67LXL -- 414213,
page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1
Sagacity and Securities; SECURITY ANALYSIS. By Benjamin Graham and David L. Dodd. 725 pp. New York: Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill Book Company. $5.
ON the assumption that despite the debacle of recent history there are still left people whose money burns a hole in their pockets, it is to be hoped that they will read this book. It is a full-bodied, mature, meticulous and wholly meritorious outgrowth of scholarly probing and practical sagacity.
New York Times subscribers* enjoy full access to TimesMachineview 129 years of New York Times journalism, as it originally appeared. 99 for your first
Or, purchase this article individually for $3.95 and download a high-resolution PDF.
* Does not include NYT Now or Premium Crosswords subscribers.
Already a subscriber? Log in to view this article 
The 282 People, Places and Things Donald Trump Has Insulted on Twitter: A Complete List
Kathleen Kane, Former Pennsylvania Attorney General, Is Sentenced to Prison
The Run-Up: What Drives Donald Trump? Fear of Losing Status, Tapes Show
CMV Is a Greater Threat to Infants Than Zika, but Far Less Often Discussed
Public Sacrifice: Think Your Retirement Plan Is Bad? Talk to a Teacher
The 282 People, Places and Things Donald Trump Has Insulted on Twitter: A Complete List
Kathleen Kane, Former Pennsylvania Attorney General, Is Sentenced to Prison
The Run-Up: What Drives Donald Trump? Fear of Losing Status, Tapes Show
We Need to Clean This Up: Clinton Aides Newly Public Email Shows Concern
On Campus: Struggling to Serve at the Nations Richest University
For Republicans Abandoning Donald Trump, Obama Has a Message: Too Late
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
