Sir Arthur Salter Offers a Plan for Meeting the Problems Hope of World Security Security - Article - NYTimes.com
campaign: nyt2016_bar1_digi_cpb_67LXL -- 283987, creative: nyt2016_bar1_digi_cpb_67LXL -- 414213,
page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1
THE HOPE OF WORLD SECURITY; Sir Arthur Salter Offers a Plan for Meeting the Problems Hope of World Security Security
By JAMES TRUSLOW ADAMSThe New York Times Studio. ();
, Section The New York Times Book Review, Page BR1, Column ,
WHEN a distinguished patient is very ill, distinguished physicians are likely to be gathered about the bedside to di
agnose the malady and to prescribe the cure. Today the patient is naught else than modern civilization itself, and the list of those consulting over the sickbed is endless.
New York Times subscribers* enjoy full access to TimesMachineview 129 years of New York Times journalism, as it originally appeared. 99 for your first
Or, purchase this article individually for $3.95 and download a high-resolution PDF.
* Does not include NYT Now or Premium Crosswords subscribers.
Already a subscriber? Log in to view this article 
The 282 People, Places and Things Donald Trump Has Insulted on Twitter: A Complete List
Kathleen Kane, Former Pennsylvania Attorney General, Is Sentenced to Prison
The Run-Up: What Drives Donald Trump? Fear of Losing Status, Tapes Show
CMV Is a Greater Threat to Infants Than Zika, but Far Less Often Discussed
Public Sacrifice: Think Your Retirement Plan Is Bad? Talk to a Teacher
The 282 People, Places and Things Donald Trump Has Insulted on Twitter: A Complete List
Kathleen Kane, Former Pennsylvania Attorney General, Is Sentenced to Prison
The Run-Up: What Drives Donald Trump? Fear of Losing Status, Tapes Show
We Need to Clean This Up: Clinton Aides Newly Public Email Shows Concern
On Campus: Struggling to Serve at the Nations Richest University
For Republicans Abandoning Donald Trump, Obama Has a Message: Too Late
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
