NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
BEFORE 9/11, the term homeland security didnt exist. Neither did the academic discipline. The events of that day changed that. Security experts  like Vincent Henry, a police officer turned Fulbright scholar who heads the Homeland Security Management Institute at Long Island University  recognized that an entirely new, specialized industry would have to be formed, and that managers and executives would have to be schooled in the ways of domestic and international terrorism to fill a security void.Eight years later, homeland security is still an emergent field, says Jim Ramsay, coordinator of the homeland security program at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Fla. Mr. Ramsay describes homeland security as a meta-discipline, much like medicine, within which there are tons of different functions and specialties  from the guy who wears Kevlar and walks the Mexican border to the cerebral policy analyst who sets the national security agenda. Education and training, he says, are essential in building this workforce.But, he notes, Our capacity to produce homeland security professionals is below our ability to absorb them in the marketplace.By 2012, nearly a quarter of all federal jobs will be related to homeland security, according to the nonprofit Partnership for Public Service, which promotes government service to students in college and graduate school. The Department of Homeland Security itself employs 208,000 people. Looking at the federal job Web site (usajobs.opm.gov/homeland.asp), you get the picture; a recent search pulled up more than 1,000 homeland security openings. Some are surprising: a call for veterinarians to work as food safety inspectors at the Department of Agriculture (salary up to $135,000). Some are not: upper management at FEMA, overseeing national disaster-relief projects (up to $153,000).To meet the demand, many colleges and universities have created masters degrees in the field. Expect to study domestic and international terrorism, emergency management, the intelligence-system structure and homeland security law and policy. Long Island Universitys masters program is heavy on theory and solely online because Mr. Henry wants to instill a broad representation of the national view. Students include the sheriff of a rural town in New Mexico, military personnel deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan, business executives from around the country, as well as police and other first responders from the New York City area.
At Embry-Riddle, Mr. Ramsay experimented by placing 10 students in internships in 2006 because he was unsure if the field was ready to absorb students with a homeland security degree. The practicums, at the F.B.I., the Department of Homeland Security, the Transportation Administration and elsewhere, were wildly successful and are now required.With so much need, colleges and universities have hastily assembled programs, and educators caution of a buyer-beware marketplace. Three years ago, there were 30 homeland security programs. Now there are about 320 (about 140 are certificate programs), says Stanley Supinski of the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, Calif. His institution offers a hybrid online/on-ground masters degree for mid- and high-level executives.
Mr. Supinski was key in setting up the Homeland Security and Defense Education Consortium Association, which has developed a curriculum endorsed by the government that is being offered free to schools in the hopes of standardizing what is taught. By spring, the association, which has 200 member schools, expects to be approved as an accrediting organization.Not all security experts support the one-size-fits-all approach of a homeland security degree. Daniel J. Kaniewski, deputy director of the Homeland Security Policy Institute at George Washington University, points out that degrees in any number of disciplines  emergency management, law enforcement, engineering, even zoonotics (the study of the transmission of disease from animals to humans)  can lead to jobs in the field.Having been on the other side, Mr. Kaniewski says, when I look at a rsum the first thing I look for is not the masters in homeland security but has the applicant demonstrated expertise in the area I need? Mr. Kaniewski himself came up through the ranks, from firefighter to special assistant to President George W. Bush for homeland security (with an M.A. in national security and Ph.D. in policy and administration in between). You dont have to look for schools with the best homeland security degree, he says. Its a marketing strategy for universities.Mr. Henry begs to differ. He believes employers value the extra focus on homeland security. It credentializes you in a way that the marketplace understands.Tip: Fluency in a second language can increase pay (the Secret Service adds a recruiting bonus of 25 percent of salary for it). The Department of Homeland Security lists academic programs by state at careervoyages.gov/homelandsecurity-main.cfm.
A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 2010, on page ED18 of Education Life with the headline: Safety First.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
