NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
October 19, 1975, Page 237 The New York Times Archives
The President had vowed, despite the recent attempts upon his life, to stand tall and strong, to refuse to capitulate to the lawless, to show he would not cower in the White House. Yet he had also said that he would take more care. He had promised Senator Howard H. Baker of Tennessee that he would carry in his pocket the lucky buckeye sent to him by the Senator's housekeeper and that he would duck the next time I hear shot rather than look up, as he had done in San Francisco. But on Tuesday, Sept. 30, with the dedication of the new F.B.I. building and a journey later that same day to the Middle West, the most venturesome President in history was venturing out of the White House again. Everyone in Washington and, it seemed, elsewhere was wondering what it would be like on the road with Gerald R. Ford. It would be like this:Tuesday10:56 A.M. (E.D.T.). The laminated White House press pass, signifying that the Secret Service had fingerprinted me, learned more about my past than my parents had ever known and considered me reasonably stable, swung from a neck chain as strode down 10th Street in Washington. Fifty feet from the F.B.I. building, a poster caught my eye. It advertised a dramaAre You Now or Have You Ever Been?about the McCarthy witchhunt era of the fifties. The poster was in front of a theater whose address 1 had forgotten; it is known as Ford's Theater.11:00 A.M. Perhaps 50 people, most of them police or security agents, stood at the corner of 10th and Pennsylvania as the motorcycles rounded the corner, trailed by the long black bulletproof limousine carrying the President, the open follow car carrying Secret Service agents, and half a dozen more vehicles. The entourage swept down a ramp into the bowels of the building as a tourist with an Instamatte cameia snapped a memento that would, in all likelihood, show a black blur. The tourist turned and walked away, smiling. The security agents remained, unsmiling.11:02 A.M. Unsmiling, the President climbed a flight of steps to a dais set up In front of a curving concrete wall in the courtyard of the F.B.I. building. He looked up and scanned the top of the surrounding building. He might have been admiring the architecture. He might have been noting the presence of the armed men on the roof, 11 stories up.Behind a temporary platform on which television cameras were arrayed, Ron Nessen, the White House press secretary, fenced with reporters as official Continue reading the main story
James M. Naughton is a White House correspondent for The New York Times. dom paid homage to J. Edgar Hoover and the F.B.I. from the dais. No, the President was probably not aware, Nessen said, of the testimony today before a Senate subcommittee that a man had offered $25,000 to an undercover agent of the alcohol. tobacco and firearms bureau of the Treasury Department if the agent would agree to shoot the President.
On the dais, Clarence Kelley, Hoover's successor as F.B.I. Director, turned to present a polished wooden box to the President. As Kelley opened the box, a White House official quipped, It's a goldplated 38. It was, in fact, a plaque and a badge enrolling Gerald R. Ford in the F.B.I. as an Honorary Special Agent. Once, as a youth, he had thought, as many youths do, of becoming a Gman. Instead Mr. Ford had entered politics. Well, said Nessen, they made him a junior Gman. Nessen turned Deputy Press Secretary Jack Hushen, and asked Did you send away when you were a kid for your junior Gman badge? Hushen nodded. Did you have a secret decoder ring? asked Nessen. Hushen nodded.The audience of law enforcement officials and F.B.I. file clerks applauded the President's call for a renewed commitment to the rule of law in America. A reporter asked Nessen if Mr. Ford was planning to go straight back to the White House. No, he replied sarcastically, he's going to stop and shake hands on the street to show how he stands tall and strong.The President did stop momentarily after the ceremony to shake hands, not on the street outside but in the insulated courtyard where each of several hundred spectators had been screened and escorted through a single entrance or wore an F.B.I. identification card. Mr. Ford got into his limousine; whipped back up the ramp onto 10th Street and followed a police escort through half a dozen red lights on the short trip to, then through, a briefly. opened metal gate to the southeast grounds of the White House.415 P.M. It was unusually crowded as the Trans World Airlines chartered Jet prepared to take off from Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland. There were 76 reporters, photographers, television cameramen, producers and sound engineers whose news organizations would be billed later for their $284.78 prorata share of the travel costs entailed In ferrying the White House press corps on Mr. Ford's twoday jaunt to Chicago and Skokie, Ill., Omaha, Neb., and hack to the capital. There also were more than a score of White House press aides, stenotypists, advance men, communications experts, logistics personnel and the lone Secret Service agent assigned to shepherd the entourage through security lines.As the plane sped toward Chicago the conversation turned, Inevitably, to Presidential security was not that we felt particularly morbid. Somcone recalled, in fact, that Harry Truman once had said the way to protect Presidents was to surround them with reporters; we knew as well that the bullet that missed Mr. Ford in San Francisco also ricocheted past some news photographers, We had debated among ourselves, as the public evidently had, the propriety of the exhaustive coverage given to the two alleged Ford assailants, Lynette Alice Fromm and Sara Jane Moore; we had reached no more satisfactory judgments than anyone else seemed to have reached about where reportage ended rind sensationalism began. One journalist circled a letter to the editor in Time magazine and passed it around, reviving the discussion on this trip; the letter, protesting the newsmagazine cover displays of Miss Fromme, a follower of convicted cult slayer Charles Manson, was signed by Roman Polanski, the widower of actress Sharon Tate, a Maison family victim,Like it or notand, in a White House more soporific than most, some did like itour attention was riveted on Mr. Ford's safety because Presidential security was news. The careers of most White House correspondents had begun. years or even decades earlier, as cub reporters covering police news. We seemed to have come full circle, back to the police beat.Someone noted that there were among us correspondents, an unusually large number, for journals or broadcast organizations in Great Britain, Canada. Australia and France. They quickly were dubbed the ghouls. Ray Zook, an unflappable man who, rumor has it, began working in the White House transportation office in the first Grover Cleveland Administration, announced on the plane's intercom that Robert Horan was the Secret Service agent assigned that day to oversee the press corps. If you have any trouble anywhere along the way, call Bob Horan, said Zook.Horan turned out to be genial, understanding and helpful, yet I couldn't help recalling a Ford trip in August to Minneapolis, where an agent shaped roughly like a sixfoot fireplug had kicked my ankles twice in rapid successionand, therefore, probably with deliberationwhen the President suddenly wheeled away from a crowd and I wound up in the agent's way. I know the agent you mean, a Secret Service executive said when I later complained, the one who looks like a Mafia hit man.
There were, as well, serious questions asked during the flight about the wisdom of the decision underlying the announcement a few hours earlier in a mimeographed White House statement: The President will travel to Elkins, W. Va., Saturday afternoon to ride as honorary grand marshal in the Mountain State Festival parade. How many people were expected to view the parade? Perhaps 30,000 or more, said a White House advance man. Would the President be in an open automobile? Might he emerge from his vehicle? Was it in keeping with his commitments about traveling with more prudence than he had done? There were no answers, and as we sped toward Chicago everyone on the T.W.A. charter seemeu to be more uptight.5:35 P.M. (C.D.T.). The two most important figures to emerge from the big silver and blue jet with Spirit of 76 painted on the nose and the United States flag emblazoned on the tail are always the President and, so far as the press is concerned, the aide carrying copies of the pool report from the handful of journalists who always accompany the chief executive as representatives of the larger press corps. Despite the brevity of the flight from Washington, the aide had copies of a hastily duplicated pool report as Air Force One taxied to a remote, secure corner of OHare field in Chicago.Nessen said he has not seen the schedule of Ford events Saturday in Elkins, W.Va., the report said in part, so he can't assess the security problem. The report went on to note that Nessen had answered the most obvious question this way: For all I know, he may ride in a tank in the parade 5:45 P.M. Chicago police, it is widely reported in Chicago. were deploying 12,000 uniformed and plainclothes officers to guard Mr. Ford. Moreover, the routes that the Presidential motorcade would take from O'Hare field to the downtown Loop and from the Loop to suburban Skokie were described assecret.The White House motorcade had no sooner sped up an access ramp from O'Hare onto the John F. Kennedy Expressway than it came to a halt. For three minutes, the object of the efforts of the 12,000 policemen, Mr. Ford, sat in his limousine in the middle of the expressway. Secret Service agents leapt from their following car to surround the limousine. A passenger, Senator Charles H. Percy, recalled later that Mr. Ford seemed oblivious to the delay. What happened, it developed, was that one policeman either forgot or was not signaled to halt routine traffic on the access ramp. A stream of vehicles ahead of the entourage had to be shooed out of the way before Mr. Ford could continue.The secret route downtown proved to be lined with spectators. It was Mr. Ford's fifth visit to Chicago since he became President scarcely 14 months earlier: Yet more people were drawn to the unannouncedbut, logically, the onlyroute than on any of the previous visits.6:15 P.M. Several hundred people stood in the gathering darkness outside the main entrance to the Conrad Hilton Hotel in the Loop to greet the President. The motorcade slowed, stopped. There was no President in it. His car had instead been diverted, as planned, to a rear service door and Mr. Ford whisked up one flight of rather tacky stairs to a secure area near the International Ballroom in which he was to address a Republican party $125adish dinner. At the hotel's main entrance, disappointed people began filing inside. Many apparently were delegates to a convention. They wore namecards identifying them and their organization: National Council.6:25 P.M. Ron Nessen stepped onto a stage in the Boulevard Room of the Conrad Hilton to begin what seemed a routine briefing. He waved a copy of a tactical map of the hotel area to demonstrate that the reardoor entry by Mr. Ford had been no lastminute change but intentional. After several minutes of routine badinage, someone asked a pulseaccelerating question: Has the White House been advised about a woman who was stopped on the street about two or three blocks from the hotel, with a gun?There is a woman who is being interviewed now by the Secret Service and the local police, Nessen replied. I don't have her name but she works in a local moneychanging or cash checking [ski office where a lot of money is handled and she has a permit to own a gun A local policeman felt that he ought to ask her some questions, and I don't know why, at which time she readily admitted she had a gun in her purse and she had a permit to own it.
Nessen's tone was relaxed, reassuring. But the tension in the Boulevard Room was nearly palpable. Right now the feeling is, he said, that it does not appear to be any sort of threat to the President. He knew nothing else, but promised to inquire as 20 longdistance phones were picked up almost in unison, and the White House press corps went back on the police beat.7:18 P.M. A number of reporters, including Seth King of The New York Times bureau in Chicago, arrived at the Boulevard Room bearing reports from Capt. Paul McLaughlin, the district police commander, that sounded considerably more serious. McLaughlin said that a plainclothes tactical unit officer had noticed the woman as she stood behind a crowdcontrol barrier across the street from the service door Mr. Ford would soon use to enter the hotel. The plainclothesman was curious about the woman's large handbag. He walked behind the woman and squeezed the handbag, felt a gun and radioed superiors, I've got a gun on Wabash [Avenue]. The woman would be detained until President Ford had left Chicago the following day, the captain said, even though she did work at a currency exchange near the hotel and was, in his judgment, not a threat to the President. The police commander could not resist bragging as he explained how the plainclothesman had become suspicious: This officer smells gunpowder. He gets six guns a week.7:22 P.M. Reporters, relaxing somewhat, began writing or dictating into telephones restrained accounts of the latest gun episode. I had always considered myself a civil libertarian, but I felt relieved that this woman about whom I knew nothing would spend the night in jail.8:20 P.M. Mr. Ford had attended two cocktail receptions and eaten dinner in the International Ballroom with 1,600 paying guests while all the detective work had been going on. By one pool reporter's account, the President had sipped three beverages that were either martinis or waterandlemonpeel with the left hand while he greeted the diners with the right hand. I don't know about walking and chewing gum at the same time, but he definitely can sip martinis and shake hands at the same time, the wireservice writer recalled.The President had also signed several dozen autographs for the Republican party dinner patrons (though he customarily tells citizens iii crowds to send me a request at the White House), and, following a startling drum roll by the Frankie Masters Orchestra on the balcony and short speeches by two party leaders at the dais, he began a 32minute address.He urged a tremendous sales campaign over the next 13 months to persuade voters that the Republicans stood for fiscal sanity, a freeenterprise system freed from the shackles of overregulation, a strong national defense, a local leaders know best approach to America's problems and, almost more important than anything, a bicentennial year reassertion of individual freedom. He spoke of the advantages of a longterm agreement covering the sale of surplus American grain to the Soviet Union, of encouraging economic trends, of his positive action in vetoing spending measures sent to him by the Democratic Congress and of the value of a strong twoparty system and how we darn well better preserve it. And, in a curious set of phrases, of his certainty that voters will act \wisely, given the truth.I think we can say, Mr. Ford said, that regardless of where we goin the city of Chicago, or in the suburbs, or in downstate Illinois, or in my state of Michigan and Detroit or the Upper Peninsula or elsewhere  the American people won't buy political doubletalk forever. He surely did not mean it the way it sounded, as if the voters were on the verge of catching on to him.It was, even with allowances for adlibbed non sequiturs and the length of Mr. Ford's day, a fairly standard speech. Representative John B. Anderson rubbed his temples. Senator Percy planted an elbow on the head table and rested his chin in his hand. But the traveling press corps flinched, sighed or groaned when Mr. Ford uttered his only newsmaking sentences:Since taking office as President some 13 months ago, I have gone to 38 states [the figure actually was 39] to let people know what this Administration is trying to do in Washington: more importantly, to learn what our fellow Americans want us to do. This includes the broadest possible spectrum. Before the end of the year, I hope and expect to visit the remainder of our states.
The President whose travels had already become the subject of national debate and public concern  the Gallup Poll reported last month that 45 per cent of those interviewed considered it too risky for Mr. Ford to mingle with crowdswas saying that not only had he scheduled layovers in West Virginia. New Jersey and Tennessee but by year's end he would find some way to drop into the overlooked states of Hawaii, Delaware, Idaho, Alabama, Mississippi, North Dakota, New Mexico and Wyoming. That was, of course, to be on top of a planned trip to China and a rumored trip to Europe before January.Wednesday9:06 AM. Some reporters had seen the scuffle outside the North Shore Hilton. No one seemed to know who started it but a man had fought with police and been dragged from a small crowd with his face bloodied. Now Nessen was standing next to a sixfoot fern at a lectern, 15 feet away from the indoor swimming pool around which White House advance men had created a makeshift press room. A stenotypist faithfully took down his words and the reaction:MR. NESSEN: This is our daily security roundup. (Laughter.) We will also be reporting now on a regular basis about stolen cars and that type thing (laughter), rapists, trash cans turned over during the night.This morningI am sorry I don't have the time, but probably some of you who saw it have the time  a man standing in front of the hotel was seen loitering in front of the hotel withThe young man with protruding ears and a faraway look was hustled off by police. He wasn't doing anything I could see, said one observer. He did look kinda weird, though.his hands in his pockets.This same man had been loitering in the hotel last night and had been put out of the hotel. He has been known to the Skokie police in the past, and why he is known to the Skokie police in the past I prefer for you to get from the Skokie police.A policeman by the name of Sergeant O'KeefeI am sorry; I don't have his first name  and a Secret Service agent approached this man today and asked him if he was going to remain in the front of the hotel; [if so] he needed to take his hands out of his pockets. (Laughter.)This man refused to take his hands out of his pockets. (Laughter.) Sergeant O'Keefe then claims the man struck him. The man was arrested, taken to Skokie police department headquarters. He had no weapon and, as far as the Secret Service was concerned, this episode was not related to any threat against the President, not related to the President's visit, and they have no further interin this9:34 A.M. The President, accompanied by a small press pool, took an elevator from his hotel suite to the basementlevel ballroom to meet with mayors of 33 suburban communities in Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana and Michigan. lie urged them to implore Congress to continue without any alterations the program of Federal nostrings grams to states and localities.
10:15 A.M. Susan Sullivan, the Pt president, and Georgene Campion, the current president of the Chicagobased Committee for Handgun Con. (rid, were prowling the coffee shop and lobby of the North Shore Hilton. Tilt two women had bumpe, stickers that said, Warning: handguns are dangerous to your health and lapel button.; that declared, We need bullets ilk( we need a hole in the head. Ban hand guns.Reporters, spectators, hotel employes were proselytized with evident success. The most eager converts seemed In be members of the Presidential protective force. Hey, said one Secret Service agent to Mrs. Campion, got any more of those buttons, honey?10:30 A.M. A Chicago television crew began filming an interview with two young women standing in a small crowd outside the North Shore Hilton. It was chilly, windy. A young man with curly hair, protruding ears and a faraway look in his eyes, clad only in jeans and a thin green Tshirt, walked behind the two young women. Police grabbed him, and hauled him into the hotel manager's office. He was not seen again before the President left Chicago.He wasn't doing anything I could see, said a man in the crowd. He did look kinda weird, though.Let the word go forth. Do not stand in Skokie, Ill., with your hands in your pockets or look weird when a President is near.1:05 P.M. The sun warmed the nation's midsection. The T.W.A. charter plane banked and scudded down over flatland toward Offutt Air Force Base, the headquarters of the Strategic Air Command, on the edge of Omaha.Richard Growald, a United Press International correspondent with mordant wit and artistic talent, had sketched a cartoon showing the President as he might lead the Mountain State Forest Festival parade three days later in West Virginia. An M50 tank, with the words grand marshal on the turret, was clanking down a street. Above the turret only a hand was visible, shaped in the politician's V symbol. Everyone laughed as the cartoon was passed around the plane.Omaha, we thought  no one would try anything had in Omaha. The image was of the staid, secure farm country where the classic portrait, American Gothic, might have been painted. Yet if there was seeming relief at having left Chicago, there was a vexatious awareness that we were about to touch down in another city. And a sudden, chilling recollection that irony seemed to dog this President's journeys.
Hadn't Mr. Ford been en route to the California capital to deliver an address on the issue of crime control when the 45caliber pistol was pointed at him in Sacramento? Hadn't the President just completed an interview in which he again disdained strong handgun controls when he emerged from a hotel to encounter the sound of a firing handgun in San Francisco? As our plane began its descent to Omaha, I could not resist a gnawing reflection on the potential there for yet another irony: It was where the President had been born 62 years earlier.1:15 P.M. At Offutt, a welcoming crowd of 3,000 people was as safe and friendly as anyone might desire. They were all either military personnel or dependents of military personnel, strung out along 200 yards of the most secure terrain in the world, the headquarters of the forces manning strategic bombers and missiles. Mr. Ford could plunge with abandon into this crowd.He did. He stepped from the airplane ramp, gave a brisk greeting to Gov. J. James Exon and to the commanders of S.A.C. and the base, and then strode purposefully toward the crowd. He walked along half of it, reaching out to shake hands and exchange pleasantries and pat schoolchildren's heads. He turned toward a lectern set up 20 Feet away on the tarmac. The second half of the crowd went awww in chorused disappointment.But Mr. Ford spoke for only three minutes. Of course, he said, it is good to be in Nebraska. This is where I was born, so I have a special affinity and a very personal re lationship with Nebraska I wish I could shake hands With each and every one of you and give to you individually my hest wishes for a good day and a very happy life.He seemed really to mean it. For all the camouflaged explanations Mr. Ford and his aides had given about his penchant for plunging into crowds'you'd he very much amazed, the President had said, how often people in crowds made valuable comments and recommendations the real reason Mr. Ford kept wanting to do it seemed obvious. He just plain liked it.His brief speech over, he went back and walked along the rest of the crowd. The people three or four rows back surged forward. Small children in front were pushed up against the heavy ropes. a few squealing in pain or concern. One child tumbled to the tarmac. Hello, there, nice to see you, the President kept saying. He came to the end of the crowd, An aide darted to aim Mr. Ford toward his limousine. The President turned hack to touch the outstretched fingers of two young boys. Finally, reluctantly, he turned away from the crowd and got into his car.1:57 P.M. At the Omaha Hilton, Mr. Ford went directly to a room where six area reporters were waiting to question him for 30 minutes: the interview would be telecast that evening.Politicians, especially Presidents, like to be Interviewed outside Washington. The normal awe factorthe reluctance of a reporter to be blunt in questioning the leader of the world, especially on televisionis magnified. The range of issues is apt to be narrower, more manageable. As the White House likely anticipated in this instance, five of the first eight questions dealt with Mr. Ford's temporary moratorium on grain sales to the Soviet Union, an issue of some concern to Midwestern wheat and corn growers sitting on big surpluses.
The mobile Washington press corps, accustomed to sitting through 30 minutes of such questioning without hearing anything new, did get some news in Omaha, though. Would Mr. Ford extend the incometax cut into 1976, asked one questioner.The answer turned out to be a qualified yes. If Congress would agree to hold down Federal spending, Mr. Ford said in so many words, he might consider continuing the tax break.In the Capitol and Dodge rooms of the Hilton, where the White House press corps was listening to the interview. there was an almost gleeful acceleration of pace. At last, after weeks of the police beat revisited, there was a story about the peripatetic President that did not have to begin despite stringent security precautions 4:33 P.M. The temporary White House press room was already littered with crumpled paper by the time the President entered the Grand Ballroom for the central event of his day in OmahaThe NebraskaIowa White House Conference on Domestic Affairs and the Economy. It was no accident that this was the 11th such conference Mr. Ford had attended in his brief Presidency, nor was it surprising that his aides were saying he would conduct at least one each month through election 1976.The White House regional conference is the most ingenious method of political communication any President has devised since the fireside chat.Ingenious? An event that seems like such a bore that most of the traveling press corps listened, from the Omaha press room, with only one collective ear? A British television correspondent sat with an American televison cameraman playing checkers on a makeshift paper playing. board with coins as pieces. The correspondent for a national news magazine sat reading James Michener's Centennial. Several writers continued piecing together accounts of the taxcut story. Ron Nessen sat at a table making a wanted poster with a handout photograph of Frank Zarb, the Federal Energy Administrator (wanted for interstate transportation of stolen oil). Yes, ingenious.Not that there was any news made by Mr. Ford as he stood, for 62 minutes, taking questions from chamberofcommerce executives, union officials, a university president, a feminist leader, a medicalschool dean, a civicclub officer, a farmbureau official, a corporation executive, a leader of the black community, from 17 Nebraskans and Iowans in all.An identical format had been followed in Peoria, Milwaukee, Seattle, St. Louis. The point was not whether there was anything new or newsworthy in the questions and answers but that they were being asked face to face and answered by a President who was careful to point out that I am here to listen and to learn.
All Presidents have pledged openness; none has actually attained it. Mr. Ford may be more open than most Presidents, particularly in comparison with his predecessor, but it is an openness largely of form rather than substance. He has not opened Cabinet meetings to TV camera or reporter. He has not given Congress carte blanche to rummage through classified documents. Perhaps 90 per cent of his Presidency is conducted in private, with only the accounts of his associates serving to describe what is taking place.But the televised regional conferences enable Mr. Ford to at least look open. He is consummate at itrelaxed, friendly, leaning against the lectern, kidding about his wife having a better performance rating in the polls that he has, and at base, selling a political philosophy while professing to be soliciting guidance. Consider his exchange in Omaha with Jim Wengert, the secretarytreasurer of the Iowa Federationof Labor:QUESTION: Could you support a program in this country that the Government of this country would become the employer of last resort so our people can get jobs?THE PRESIDENT: I might say Dr. Arthur Burns [chairMan of the Federal Reserve] just recommended that. So let me put is this way: It all depends on how you define it. Dr. Burnsand I talked to him about it the other dayhis thought of the Government being an employer or last resort. and he spelled this out in a speech down in Atlanta, is that you hire people at less than the minimum wage but you give him a job on the theory that if they are working at less than the minimum wage it is an incentive for them to go out and find a better job. I don't think that is what you are thinking of.QUESTION: No, I am not. (Laughter.)THE PRESIDENT. So that is why I think you have to define what you are talking about as the Government being an employer of last resort. I was about to say earlier I was glad to see the Iowa A.F.L.C.I.O. and Arthur Burns agreeing.QUESTION: No, that isn't true.THE PRESIDENT: But obviously in this case you don't for us to undertake a job to hire everybody, I think is not the right approach. We want jobs emphasized in the private sector, and, if we handle our affairs properly, we won't have to resort either to extended unemployment compensation or employment with the Government as that agency of last resort. That is an easy phrase, but I just think there are enough problems in it that we ought to find other answers, primarily in the private sector.QUESTION: Thank you.Jim Wengert did not change his economic views. Nor did Mr. Ford. But the exchange enabled Mr. Ford to explain his attitude to Iowa and Nebraska voters in a congenial, dispassionate manner. He came across as just folks. And it is just folks, after all, who elect Presidents.Mr. Ford is determined to continue roaming the country, despite the risks, because he is determined to be more than a standin President. His Administration is the immediate successor to the Watergate White House, and if it is to last longer than 17 months, Mr. Ford must surmount the climate of national distrust. His method seems to be to use the journeys as an unspoken declaration: Look, am one of you, I want to listen, I care about you.9:15 P.M. (E.D.T.) Someone had found a few balloons, and as the big T.W.A. airplane lumbered through the sky toward Washington, a pho tographer was creating a sculpture out of them. Ties loosened, shirt collars undone, drinks in hand, the White House press corps was celebrating survival. Another trip with the junket junkie out of the way. Deadlines past. The President, his jet an hour ahead of the press plane, probably already helicoptering from Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland to the protective White House womb. Unwind. Enjoy. Oh, sure, in less than three days there would be another journey into the West Virginia mountains and then on to Newark, of all places, for an other Republican banquet. The tension quotient would rise again for certain. But not for a fwe days Decelerate Live.It was always the same, only more so after The California Episodes. The last flight home was the time to drink too much or play liar's poker with serial numbers on dollar bills or read the novel that had been lugged along unopened or talk, in a way that selfstyled cynics would never admit they talked, of family and ambition and selfdoubt, or advance another degree the running practical jokes. This time it was the kid, the babyfaced young reporter from an East Coast newspaper, who happened to be the butt; he had once been seen, to his lasting dismay, putting a small bar of hotel soap in his overnight bag; colleagues had been making formal presentations of soap bars, small and large, ever since. While the kid had been busy writing in Omaha, someone had thoughtfully stuffed his briefcase with coffee stirsticks and sugar packets and a glass ashtray so that an obliging White House aide could pretend to search the plane on behalf of the Omaha Hilton house detective and discover the items in the kid's briefcase.
Some other time the joke might be on Jaws, as the vocally aggressive radio reporter was known, or on The Sodbuster, the Texas A&M graduate who was forever being embarrassed when the traveling army medic would be induced to ask if The Sodbuster iteeded a booster shot of penicillin. Yes, it was juvenile. Yes, it was bizarre. Yes, it was also part of the territory, like the deepsea diver ascending gradually to avoid the bends, or, for that matter, like the White House press plane tradition of applauding the pilot when the aircraft landed, safe.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on October 19, 1975, on page 237 of the New York edition with the headline: In the wake of the assassins.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
