NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Seventeen years ago, shortly after he retired as Army Chief of Staff, Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor wrote a book entitled The Uncertain Trumpet that contributed to an important change in the strategic thinking of national leaders. His thesisadopted byPRECARIOUS SECURITY. By Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor. 143 Pages. W. W. Norton. $7.95 the Kennedy Administration, which made him a court favorite and installed him as military thinker in residence at the White Housewas that the nation should not depend so heavily upon massive nuclear retaliation for its security but should shift to a strategy of flexible response ranging from the conventional to the nuclear. His thesis is now accepted doctrine, although, as General Taylor seems to acknowldge, there remain problems of precisely how the doctrine is to be applied in today's changing, turbulent world.Now, at the age of 75, in what may well be the valedictory of one of the most distinguished, thoughtful military officers of the postwar period, General Taylor attempts to set forth a national security policy for the next decade. On the presumption that the nation is backing into reassessment of its postwar national security policies, it is a most timely and important contribution to a nascent national debate about the future role of the. United States in the world.Depressingly PessimisticAs the title suggests, General Taylor is depressingly pessimistic about the vitality and security of the United States, so much so that one wonders whether he has been indelibly embittered by a Vietnam experience that he helped to create. At one point, in a statement that a younger generation that was forced to fight the war would find hard to accept, he observes, The pledged word has lost its sanctitythe abandonment of our Vietnam ally on the battlefield hardly raised a cry of outrage from the public seemingly indifferent or unaware of its significance.Morally, he finds the nation showing signs of inner decay, which suggest dwindling national vitality and ebbing selfrespect. There is, he finds, a general aimlessness of national spirit, a weariness of spirit, a sterile skepticism, and an exaggerated distrust of conventional virtue worthy of the effects on the Romans described by Gibbon.
Militarily, he finds the nation illprepared and poorly organized in what he foresees as a struggle for national survival in a volatile, contentious world. Many of our alliances are weakened, he observes. Important overseas bases and logistic facilities have become insecure, and the range of our political and military options has been sharply reduced. On top of all that, for the moment at least, our will to use military power is a matter of doubt.There is no doubt in General Taylor's mind that the nation must be prepared to use military force to protect its own interests as well as to maintain peace throughout the world. In a planet of expanding populations and reducing resources, he foresees a decade replete with conflicts contributing to political instability, social turbulence, civil and foreign wars. In this volatile environment, he expects that American leaders will be called upon to face many crises, often unpredictable, which may require the threat or use of force to control them.What is General Taylor's prescription for this bad case of national decadence and malaise? A stern program of regeneration in which the nation would learn to use all forms of powers, military as well as economic, to protect all its important valuables from acdess to foreign markets to preservation of a constitutional form of government.Part of this program of national regeneration would include increased spending and emphasis upon the military forces. He suggests that over the long haul, the nation should be spending about 8 percent of its gross national product on national defense up from the present 6 percent. That would mean about a $30 billion increase in the present $100 billion military budget. Too fleetingly in what is more a sermon than a detailed analysis of our national defense posture, General Taylor casts out some nuggets on how he would reorganize the military.On the assumption that a long war in Europe is unlikely, he would reduce the American force in Europe from 41/2 to divisions, but he does not deal with how this assumption might change the structure and size of a Navy that is geared for long war in Europe. He questions the need for a threedivision Marine Corps, since major amphibious landings no longer seem likely. He would reexamine outdated military alliances and place greater emphasis on revitalizing alliances of economic importance.Organizationally, he would supplement the National Security Council with a National Planning Council, which would bring together all considerationseconomic as well as military, domestic as well as internationalin establishing America's proper role in the world. One has the uneasy feeling that in the latter reorganizational proposal General Taylor is reflecting the military faith in pyramidal organization charts and that he has a misguided notion that somehow a super council rather than men is going to solve the problems of directing a government.Our Former PositionBasically what General Taylor is seeking is a restoration of our standing and authority in world affairs, a regaining of our former position as a respected great power. In fact, it is necessary to increase the defense budget to demonstrate national will. Or as General Taylor puts it, As reaffirmation of our determination to regain our former high estate and to defend our interests in the coming decade of troubles, an increased military budget would be a convincing action which all observers would understand.There is the nub of the debate, of which General Taylor, glumly but eloquently, states only one side. Admittedly a turbulent decade lies ahead, with a high probability of innumerable collisions of economic and political interests that could lead to localized military actions. But is restoration of the United States position as world authorityin other days it was world policemanany longer within our reach or has it been taken out of our grasp by the very economic and political conditions that General Taylor prophesies will lead to turbulence?The other side of the debate is that while the United States can try to influence it can no longer militarily control events, particularly in the developing world. It is an argument that leads to different and smaller military budget than prescribed by General Taylor. Not because of any national malaise or decadence, perhaps we have reached a generational watershed in the military role we can and should play in the world, and General Taylor is but echoing the views of an older generation.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on July 31, 1976, on page 12 of the New York edition with the headline: Books of The Times.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
