Confirmed: Google's Siri-Esque Personal Assistant Is Creepy
Confirmed: Google's Siri-Esque Personal Assistant Is Creepy
Google's all-knowing Siri-esque personal assistant has confirmed some suspicions, veering from cool feature into creepy stalker territory. When Google announced Google Now -- a service that "gets you just the right information at just the right time," as Google explains it -- some, like Bits Blog's Jenna Wortham suggested the all-knowingness might come off as creepy, even if it's useful. From the looks of the service, which we get fromBusiness Insider's Steve Kovach, it does indeed sound like the service keeps a very close eye on us, begging the question: How much do we want our computers to know about us?
Not as much as Google Now, at least from Kovach's experience. Having the latest Android software, Kovach has gotten his hands on the product. And, like a creepy bot, it already knows lots and lots about him, monitoring everything he does online to guess what he'll need before he knows it. Some examples:
It knows his favorite sports teams: I'm a Mets fan (unfortunately), so a lot of my sports-related Google searches are for the score of the latest game. Google knows this, so Google Now automatically sends me notifications with the latest score. I don't even have to ask anymore.
It knows his friends, which is creepy not just for Kovach. The other night I was getting dinner with a few old journalism friends from college. We were talking about Jim Romenesko, and one of my friends wondered how old he was. I asked Google Now, "How old is Jim Romenesko?" The answer came up in less than a second.
Though Kovach doesn't find any of this an overreach, calling the service "better than Siri at pulling up relevant information," it sounds a little too all-knowing to us and, we image, for Wortham. "It gets weird when Google starts to extend its reach into that territory, because Google already knows so much about us  things like who we e-mail and talk to the most, along with what we search for," writes Wortham. "When those smaller bits of data begin to get linked together in a more meaningful way, that knowledge can take on a larger, different context," she continues.
In the digital personal assistant world, it's not human-like qualities -- a.k.a the uncanny valley -- that makes these programs creepy, but rather the kind of information they have. That Google Now knows about us in a more than Google-search-able way makes the service feel like an intrusion. To be sure, Siri knows things, too. And it even talks (and jokes) like a human. But, Siri does not take note of our habits, like some weird stalker friend. We don't have an aversion to the Apple version because it still has a robot brain. Google Now, on the other hand, not only has a human brain, it has a nosy omniscient one. That, we find creepy. And, considering all the privacy issues Google has gotten into of late, we doubt we're alone here.
These Google Glass Early Adopters Will Warm Your Heart
Which Republicans Oppose Donald Trump? A Cheat Sheet
Colin Powell has reportedly announced that he will back Hillary Clinton for president.
The Old-Fashioned, Modern Marriage of Ina and Jeffrey
Which Republicans Oppose Donald Trump? A Cheat Sheet
Colin Powell has reportedly announced that he will back Hillary Clinton for president.
The Old-Fashioned, Modern Marriage of Ina and Jeffrey
The Barefoot Contessas latest cookbook doubles as an insight into the workings of the most cherished celebrity couple in the world.
Its also about defining baseballs future, with two teams hoping to break losing streaks via forward-thinking approaches.
The presidents final appearance on the whimsical late-night show indulged in some humor, but for the most part it made a case for seriousness.
Could the World Series Help Clinton (or Trump) Win Ohio?
Probably notbut in a close race, a Cleveland Indians defeat could help Donald Trump, while a Tribe triumph might buoy Hillary Clinton.
Rodrigo Duterte flew to China and signed billions in deals, said he would separate ties with the U.S., then took it all back.
Just why was Tom Hanks dancing in a black-and-orange suit on Saturday Night Live so funny?
By ridiculing Kid Cudis substance use and depression, he proves how much guts his rival had in fighting stigmas.
The hit AMC show ended its sixth season on a cheap cliffhanger. Its seventh-season premiere messily tried to regain momentum.
SNLs Surprisingly Affectionate Portrayal of a Trump Supporter
Tom Hankss Doug has a lot in common with Black Jeopardy contestantsexcept, of course, for politics.
Black Mirrors Hated in the Nation Considers Online Outrage
The final chapter of this season takes the social-media mob to its deadly extreme.
Westworld and VR Gaming: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Highlights from seven days of reading about arts and entertainment
Black Mirrors Men Against Fire Tackles High-Tech Warfare
The fifth episode of the new season features American soldiers fighting mysterious mutants.
Black Mirrors San Junipero is the Standout of the Season
The more emotional and hopeful tale stars Mackenzie Davis and Gugu Mbatha-Raw.
A roundup of our recent writing on arts and entertainment
Her personal comeback album uses retro references in songs that dont quite communicate what makes her special.
Park Chan-wooks new romantic thriller is a sumptuous tale of shifting identities, forbidden love, and colonialism.
Black Mirrors Shut Up and Dance Is a Horrifying Thriller
The third episode of the new season is one of the most disturbing of the series.
The second episode of the new season is a twisty, tense horror story about an immersive video game that can detect your darkest fears.
Starring Bryce Dallas Howard, the episode is set in a world where everyone is ranked out of five.
Trump employed the adjective, in the final presidential debate, to insult his opponent. What he didnt realize was that the word has long been a rallying cry.
Trump employed the adjective, in the final presidential debate, to insult his opponent. What he didnt realize was that the word has long been a rallying cry.
Clinton Still Hasn't Faced Questions About Pay-to-Play Head On
Donald Trump didnt press his rival on accusations that Clinton Foundation donors enjoyed special access, but that doesnt mean theyll go away.
The sequel to one of Hollywoods most underrated action entries of the decade wastes a solid performance from Tom Cruise.
The mediums episodic structure makes it an apt medium to explore that most long-running and unpredictable of emotions.
The PBS documentary is less a behind-the-scenes glimpse than a social primer on why Broadways biggest smash matters.
Nate Parker's film uses cinematic tropes that may obscure the true complexity of Nat Turners legend.
Even Trump's Supporters Are Wary of 'Rigged' Rhetoric
Why has his latest fixation elicited a level of condemnation that his prior personal attacks did not?
You Want It Darker gravely and beautifully accepts God and mortality.
The famed Japanese animator and director created heroines who defied feminine stereotypes and showed me how to be at home in my own skin.
The Old-Fashioned, Modern Marriage of Ina and Jeffrey
The Netherlands Will Increase its Forests By a Quarter
Chicago Activists Turn the Tables on Police Surveillance
Its so dangerous being a bridesmaid in China that some brides are hiring professionals instead
Apple CEO Tim Cook says you wont have to give up your privacy to have a great AI assistant
The world would be $1.1 trillion richer if it treated its young people more like Germany does
Another 150 Hillary Clinton Emails Had Classified Info, State Dept. Says
The Anti-Establishment Candidate Challenging Donald Trump
35 ISIS leaders killed; Dozens dead at Pakistan police academy; USAF preps new gunship; Get ready to walk away from Incirlik; and just a bit more...
Kendall: The Pentagons Spending Less on Weapons, So Let Me Keep My Job
Copyright 2016 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.
