Washington Mayor Describes Inaugural Precautions as Excessive - NYTimes.com
campaign: nyt2016_bar1_digi_cpb_67LXL -- 283987, creative: nyt2016_bar1_digi_cpb_67LXL -- 414213,
page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1
THE INAUGURATION: SECURITY; Washington Mayor Describes Inaugural Precautions as Excessive
On the eve of President Bush's second inauguration, Mayor Anthony A. Williams of Washington said Wednesday that the city had failed to convince inaugural security officials that in the absence of any specific threat, their precautions were excessive.
Street closings, snarled traffic and tight restrictions on pedestrians have become the norm here this week.
''In general, we've struck a balance too far in favor of security and not enough in favor of openness,'' Mr. Williams told reporters at his weekly news briefing.
The mayor also underscored his dissatisfaction with the federal government's insistence that the city use $11 million of its annual federal security grant to help cover inauguration costs. The money is otherwise used for security training and preparedness programs.
''I feel like Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York,'' Mr. Williams said. ''He says New York is the No.1 homeland security threat but gets an unfair share of federal money for security. We're working with every means possible to correct that for us. Ultimately, I believe we'll get reimbursed.''
While the inauguration and related events are organized by a private committee working with the White House, the city provides much of the support through its police, emergency response teams and municipal transportation services.
Local officials have estimated that the overall cost of the inauguration to the city will exceed $17 million, but the federal government has given it only $6 million for the event.
Mr. Williams said he and other city officials had ''pushed back'' in an effort to strike a more even balance between security and openness. The city has also requested immediate reimbursement for expenditures, he said.
Whatever the inconveniences, city officials said the inauguration would provide huge economic benefits locally.
William A. Hanbury, president and chief executive of the Washington Convention and Tourism Corporation, said inaugural events attracted ''Super Bowl numbers'' of people to the city. He predicted that visitors would spend more than $100 million here at hotels, restaurants and other businesses.
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
