Man Carrying a Loaded Pistol Is Arrested Near White House - 

Archives|Man Carrying a Loaded Pistol Is Arrested Near White House
Man Carrying a Loaded Pistol Is Arrested Near White House
October 24, 1975, Page 42  Archives
WASHINGTON, Oct. 23 (AP) A young man carrying loaded pistol was arrested outside the White House today, but the Park Police and Secret Service officials do not believe that he represented a threat to the life of President Ford.The man was identified by the Park Police as Addison Young McCandless, 24 years; old, of Harrisburg, Pa. The police said he had a .44caliber pistol in a holster.George Berklacy, a police spokesman, said Mr. McCandless was charged by the Park Police with violation of a District of Columbia law against carrying a dangerous weapon.Mr. Berklacy said the Park Police and Secret Service agents questioned Mr. McCandless and added, At this time circumstances suggest there was no threat to the President.Mr. Berklacy gave this account of what happened:Park Police Officer James Fedders was investigating a traffic accident at East Executive Drive and Pennsylvania Avenue when he spotted Mr. McCandless carrying the pistol in a holster and walking on the sidewalk outside the fence at the northeast corner of the White House grounds.
Officer Fedders and Officer Donald Wills approached Mr. McCandless and disarmed him without incident. He was handcuffed and taken to a White House security gate, where he was questioned by Secret Service agents, who then released him to the Park Police.Mr. Berklacy said Mr. McCandless was transferred to a jail cell, where interrogation continued.Inmate Accused of ThreatSANTA BARBARA, Calif., Oct. 23 (AP)The Secret Service charged a jail inmate today with threatening President Ford's life. But the sheriff dismissed the threat as a ploy on the part of the man to get out of jail.The complaint was issued in Los Angeles against Kent Frye, 26 years old, who allegedly wrote a letter that said in part, I escaped for the soul [sic] reason to blow your head off.Mr. Frye, awaiting trial for stealing two .38 caliber pistols, escaped from a Federal prison in Danbury, Conn.this week on the jail floor outside his cell. Sheriff John Carpenter of Santa Barbara County said an investigation showed that Mr. Frye wrote the letter, then dropped it through the bars at the suggestion of two men being held in the jail in an alleged assassination plot aimed at Ford.The sheriff said Gary Steven DeSure, 32, and Preston Michael Mayo, 24, told Mr. Frye: If you want to get out of here and into a nice mental hospital, threaten the life of the President. Then they'll dismiss the local charges against you.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on October 24, 1975, on page 42 of the New York edition with the headline: Man Carrying a Loaded Pistol Is Arrested Near White House.

