Officials Offer Reassurances on Security at Super Bowl - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Pro Football|Officials Offer Reassurances on Security at Super Bowl
Officials Offer Reassurances on Security at Super Bowl
Heavily armed specialists with the San Francisco Police Department were all over Super Bowl City on Wednesday.
With anxiety heightened three months after terrorists struck a stadium amid a bloody series of attacks in and around Paris, local and federal law enforcement officials said Wednesday that there was no credible threat to Super Bowl 50 and that several measures, many of them not visible to the public, would protect it.The secretary of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, flanked by nearly a dozen other law enforcement officials, said security for the game, set for Sunday, and for events surrounding it here this week involved an array of local and federal law enforcement agencies. He said many measures would not be seen by the public, but he did not elaborate.We look forward to a safe and secure and successful Super Bowl, said Mr. Johnson, who inspected Levis Stadium, the site of the game, earlier Wednesday. He said he would not be at the game.Security is always a concern at the Super Bowl, one of the countrys highest-profile events. Last years game, with 168 million viewers, was the most-watched show in American history.
Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
But security this year has received greater focus by the league and security officials after the attacks in Paris in November, when terrorists struck several venues, including Stade de France in the northern suburb St.-Denis during a match between the French and German soccer teams.The attackers did not get past the gates of the stadium that night, but their attempt was a reminder that stadiums can be targets.
Mr. Johnson said he had been in contact with his counterpart in France at the Ministry of the Interior. Jeffrey Miller, the head of security for the N.F.L., traveled to France over the summer, before the attacks, as part of a session to share knowledge among international security experts.Were always collectively talking and paying attention to trade craft and things occurring overseas because if we see something happen there, there is a good possibility someone may try to do something like that on U.S. soil, Mr. Miller said.The Super Bowl has a Tier 1 special event assessment rating, which allows federal agencies to spend money to help secure the event. That rating is one level below a national special security event, the highest. The first Super Bowl after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, held in New Orleans, had that designation.Mr. Miller said a no-fly zone would extend from San Jose, Calif., to near San Francisco International Airport, starting an hour before the game and continuing until midnight. Many fans flying to the game on private jets will arrive in Oakland, Calif., as a result. The temporary flight restriction does not apply to commercial flights controlled by air traffic control.
A version of this article appears in print on February 4, 2016, on page B13 of the New York edition with the headline: Officials Offer Reassurances on Security.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Complete coverage of the N.F.L.'s Super Bowl 50 from New York Times reporters and editors.
Pirates Ryan Vogelsong Remains in Hospital With Multiple Facial Fractures
Peyton Manning Expected to Say Hes Leaving the N.F.L.
Wins of Their Fathers Weigh on Two Super Bowl Coordinators
In Silicon Valley, a Time-Honored Sport Looks to the Future
At Blinn College, Cam Newton Plotted a Return to the Big Time
Out of a Rare Super Bowl I Recording, a Clash With the N.F.L. Unspools
Wins of Their Fathers Weigh on Two Super Bowl Coordinators
In Silicon Valley, a Time-Honored Sport Looks to the Future
At Blinn College, Cam Newton Plotted a Return to the Big Time
Out of a Rare Super Bowl I Recording, a Clash With the N.F.L. Unspools
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
