Suspect in Reagan Attack Linked to Phone Threat - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Archives|Suspect in Reagan Attack Linked to Phone Threat
November 21, 1975, Page 20 The New York Times Archives
MIAMI, Nov. 20. (AP)I thought someone was just falling down, and I was persuaded by the Secret Service to leave, said Ronald Reagan, who was shaken but smiling today after a youth with a toy pistol was wrestled down by Secret Service agents protecting Mr. Reagan near the Miami International Airport.The security men shoved Mr. Reagan away from a crowd of hand shakers as the assailant approached the former California Governor. The Secret Service said the gun was a plastic model of a 45caliber automatic pistol.The man, identified by the Secret Service as Michael Lance Carvin, 20 years old, of Pompano Beach, Fla., gave no motive for his action, an agency spokesman said.Mr: Carvin was charged with intimidating a Presidential candidate and with assaulting a Federal .officer, according to Bob Newbrand, special agent in charge of the local Secret Service office.Maximum penalties are one year in prison and a $1,000 fine on the intimidation charge and three years in prison and $5,000 fine on the assault of a Federal officer charge.
Mr. Newbrand said that Mr. Carvin was believed to have made a threatening telephone call last week from a Pompano Beach pay booth. He said the Secret Service office in Denver had received a call Nov. 10 from a person identifying himself only as Michael. Mr. Newbrand said the caller had threatened to harm Mr. Reagan, President Ford and Vice President Rockefeller unless Lynette Alice Fromme was freed.Miss Fromme, charged with attempting to kill President Ford in Sacramento last Sept. 5, is on trial in California.Mr. Newbrand said he believed that Mr. Carvin intended to harm Mr. Reagan. He's a big kid6 feet, 180 pounds. You figure it out, he said.Mr. Carvin attended the University of Tampa, for two years and the University of Denver before that, Mr. Newbrand said.Mr. Reagan had just finished a a 15minute outdoor speech to about 400 supporters on the first stop of a twoday campaign tour. He was stepping off the platform to shake hands with wellwishers lining a security rope about five yards from the stage.I saw the security men around him [Reagan] shove the Governor back and grab the man and throw him on the ground, a Reagan campaign worker, Jim Sendiger, said. And when I saw him on the ground, they were wrestling with him.I could see that he still had the gun. But at that point, the Governor was shoved away, Mr. Sendiger said.Mr. Reagan was hustled to a secondfloor room at the hotel. But within 30 minutes, he returned to the first floor for a news conterence.
I'm fine, he said. It doesn't change my view about campaigning. You have to remember this is not a thing , that is limited to Presidential candidates.Mr. Reagan's wife, Nancy, said she had discussed the possibility of, violence with her husband several times in Sacramento.I hope It doesn't happen again, she said at the news conference. I think you always have it in the back of your mind.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on November 21, 1975, on page 20 of the New York edition with the headline: Suspect in Reagan Attack Linked to Phone Threat.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
