MIT project attempts to track 'Gaydar' on Facebook - NY Daily News
Get Our Newsletter A daily blend of the most need-to-know Daily News stories, delivered right to your inbox.
Get the latest breaking news, entertainment, sports and more.Download Our App Subscribe to the newspaper, our e-edition, or both.Subscribe
Football Basketball Baseball Hockey Soccer College High School More Sports
'Gaydar' project at MIT attempts to predict sexuality based on Facebook profiles MIT project attempts to track 'Gaydar' on Facebook
DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER Tuesday, September 22, 2009, 1:17 PM
A new project at MIT claims to be able to predict sexual orientation based on cues from a person's Facebook page. (Getty)
DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER Tuesday, September 22, 2009, 1:17 PM
Is your sexuality being unmasked on Facebook? Possibly, say two Massachusetts Institute of Technology students in an experiment that's anything but fabulous. Carter Jernigan and Behram Mistree claim they can actually tell whether or not someone is gay based on the company they keep, according to a Tuesday report in the Boston Globe. In the project, dubbed "Gaydar," Jernigan and Mistree pored over Facebook data compiled from a software program looking at the gender and sexuality of a user's friends. Based on that information, the students say people may be unintentionally "outing" themselves because they were able to predict, with accuracy, whether someone is gay.Never mind that the students had no way of actually verifying their prediction of people they didn't know; Jernigan and Mistree are touting their "discovery.""When they first did it, it was absolutely striking. We said, 'Oh my God - you can actually put some computation behind that,' " Hal Abelson, an MIT computer science professor, told the Boston Globe.Do you really need a degree from MIT to apply the adage birds of a feather flock together? And since when is a prediction confirmation that someone is gay or straight?Even if you dont affirmatively post revealing information, simply publishing your friends list may reveal sensitive information about you, or it may lead people to make assumptions about you that are incorrect, said Kevin Bankston, senior staff attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit digital rights organization in San Francisco. Certainly if most or many of your friends are of a particular religious or political or sexual category, others may conclude you are part of the same category - even if you havent said so yourself.Using specific information about users - gender, who they were "interested in," that is men or women, and their list of friends - the students trained their computer program to analyze the friend links of 1,544 men who said they were straight, 21 who said they were bisexual, and 33 who said they were gay, according to the Globe report. Gay men had proportionally more gay friends than straight men, giving the computer program a way to infer a persons sexuality based on their friends.Then they did the same analysis on 947 men who did not report their sexuality. Although the researchers had no way to confirm the analysis with scientific rigor, they used their private knowledge of 10 people in the network who were gay, but did not declare it on their Facebook page as a simple check. They found all 10 people were predicted to be gay by the program. The analysis seemed to work in identifying gay men, but the same technique was not as successful with bisexual men or women, or lesbians, the Globe reported.So the computer predicted that 10 men who the students already knew were gay, were in fact gay. Groundbreaking.This experiment, done in 2007, has yet to appear in a scientific journal. Let's go out on a limb and predict that it never will be.
Get Daily News stories, delivered to your inbox. Sign Up
Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest YouTube
Support & Contact Contact Us Careers Media Kit Site Map
Terms of Use Ad Choices Terms of Service Privacy Policy
 Copyright 2016 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.
