NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
September 6, 1975, Page 1 The New York Times Archives
SACRAMENTO, Calif., Sept. 5A young woman pointed a 45caliber semiautomatic pistol at President Ford at close range today, but a Secret Service agent saved the President from possible harm by grabbing the gun and forcing it from the woman's hand.FORD SAFE AS GUARD SEIZES A GUN WOMAN POINTED AT HIM ON COAST; FOLLOWER OF MANSON IS CHARGEDA White House spokesman said later in the day that the pistol contained a magazine with bullets in it, but that there was no bullet in the weapon's chamber when the gun was seized.The woman was identified by the Sacramento police as Lynette Alice Fromme, 26 years old, who has been a follower of Charles M. Manson, the leader of a group convicted of murdering Sharon Tate, the actress, and six others in 1969.Held in County JailMiss Fromme was arraigned this afternoon before a United States Magistrate in the Federal courthouse here on a charge of attempted assassination of the President. Bond of $1million was set, and she was taken to the Sacramento County jail. Continue reading the main story
It was the first time anyone has been charged with attempted assassination of the President since the Federal law specifically citing assault against Presidents and other public officials went into effect in 1972, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Larry M. Buendorf, 37 years old, a Secret Service agent in the protective detail assigned to the President, grabbed the gun and forced it to the ground as Mr. Ford walked two feet away from the woman, who was in a crowd outside the California Capitol.Agent's Hand CutThe White House said that Mr. Buendorf had cut his hand as he seized the weapon, possibly on the cocked hammer.The President said later that as he passed the place when the woman was standing, I saw a hand coming up behind several others in the front row, and obviously there was a gun in that hand.The scuffle occurred just before 10 A.M., Pacific daylight time, as the President was walking the 150 yards from the Senator Hotel to the Capitol to address the California Legislature and urge a nationwide effort to curb rising violent crime.The President was unusually wan and serious as he read his speech. He said to reporters afterward that he neither blamed Californians for the actions of one individual nor would he permit the event to deter him from mingling with spectators.Witnesses who had been standing near the redhaired woman said that she calmly drew the weapon from a purse and, as Mr. Ford passed by shaking hands of spectators, pointed it toward the President.Ron Nessen, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Buendorf, had given the following account of the attempted attack:Walking beside Mr. Ford, Mr. Buendorf saw the woman's hand being raised between two spectators and aimed at the President. He grabbed the weapon with one hand and the woman's arm with the other, forcing the arm behind her and causing the weapon to fall to the ground.Mr. Buendorf turned the alleged assailant into the crowd, away from Mr. Ford. She was wrestled to the ground as bystanders heard her shout, Don't get excited! It didn't go off! It didn't go off!
Assisted by a Sacramento policeman and another Secret Service agent, Mr. Buendorf handcuffed the woman identifield as Miss Fromme. The officers forced her against a nearby tree, where she kept repeating:He is not a public servant. He is not a public servant.A Code WarningAs Mr. Buendorf subdued the woman, another Secret Service agent shouted, Get down, Let's go.The phrase was later said to, be a Secret Service code meaning that a serious problem had arisen and the President should be moved away quickly.Two of the agents with Mr. Ford grabbed his suitcoat, forced him to bend doubleevidently to reduce the possibility of becoming a targetand agents swiftly surrounded the President as soon as they heard the code phrase.The agents quickly escorted Mr. Ford past the rest of the crowd and into the Capitol building about 100 yards away.One reporter following the President asked Mr. Ford if ht was all right. Grimfaced, the President nodded his head had said, Sure.He proceeded into the Capitol for a meeting with Gov, Edmund G. Brown Jr. and other state officials and then gave his prepared speech on crime for a joint session of the State Senate and State Assembly. In the address, telecast live in California, Mr. Ford made no referenee to what had occurred.Address on CrimeThe President told the legislative audience that crime had become a threat so dangerous and so stubborn that it could be contained only by a concerted effort of governments at all levels. He called for the abandonment of partisanship on a scale comparable to closing ranks in wartime against an external enemy to meet the problem.Returning to the hotel across from the Capitol, Mr. Ford told reporters that he was very emphatically. grateful to the Secret Service and other law enforcement officials who were on hand when the apparent attempt on his life had been made.
I also wish to express to the people of California my gratitude for the very, very warm welcome they've given me, he said. I would not, under any circumstances, feel that one individual in any way represented the attitude on the part of the people of California.The President said that this incident under no circumstances will prevent me or preelude me from contacting the American people as I travel from one state to another and one community to another.In my judgment, it's vitally important for the President to see the American people, he Vent on, and I'm going to continue to have that personal contact and relationship with the American people.However, as the President left Sacramento late today, he did not go up to the large crowds that had assembled to see him off both at the hotel and at the airport.Mr. Ford had emerged from the old hotel to applause from a crowd of several hundred persons and crossed the street to the Capitol grounds this morning when scuffle took place.After he had walked briskly about 50 yards from the hotel, shaking hands hurriedly with people lining a crowd control rope along a curving walkway, Mr. Buendorf suddenly leaped toward the crowd.Linda Marlow, a secretary for the State Assembly, told reporters that she had observed the alleged assailantclad in a long red dress and with long red hair tied behind her head asking a Sacramento policeman if Mr. Ford would pass by the spot about 10 minutes before the President did so.The policeman gave a noncommittal reply, according to Miss Marlow, and the woman in the red dress remained just behind several secretaries.
One of them, Irene Morrison, said that Mr. Ford had just shaken her hand and walked past the group when the President suddenly lurched away. Miss Marlow dropped to the ground, and a Secret Service agent grabbed the woman with the gun. She said Miss Marlow had ducked because she had seen the gun being drawn from the woman's purse.Dori Cannon, a third spectator standing at the scene, said that Mr. Ford had gone about four individuals beyond the spot when the scuffling began and Secret Service, agents surrounded the President. She said that Mr. Ford's face had turned completely white.Mr. Nessen quoted the agent, Mr. Buendorf, as having said that the President was about two feet from Miss Fromme when Mr. Buendorf sighted the .45caliber handgun.Mr. Nessen said Mr. Buendorf had grabbed the weapon in his right hand, sustaining a cut between his thumb and index finger that was subsequently treated by the President's physician, Dr. William H. Lukash.According to the White House spokesman, Mr. Buendorf was uncertain how he had been cut but thought that it may have been on the firing hammer.Despite Miss Fromme's history of identification as a figure in the so called Manson familywhere she was known as SqueakyMr. Nessen said that she was not listed in the files kept by the Secret Service of individuals who might pose a security threat to the President.Mr. Manson and three of his women followers were convicted in Los Angeles on Jan. 25, 1971, on 27 counts of firstdegree murder and conspiracy to murder for a series of killings. These included the slaughter of five persons, among them Miss Tate, wife of the movie director Roman Polanski, who was eight and onehalf months pregnant; in an expensive home in the hills above Hollywood in 1969. Two other persons were killed in a separate incident.Manson FollowerThe police said that Miss Fromme was one of three former followers of Mr. Manson who shared a Sacramento residence.
Miss Fromme was one of four Manson clan members who were sentenced to 90 days in jail in April, 1971, for attempting to keep a witness from testifying in the Tate murder trial by giving her a hamburger laced with LSD.At Miss Fromme's arraignment, the young woman, who is about 5 feet 3 inches tall, appeared to courtroom observers to be frightened, The Associated Press said.The only thing she said was No after United States Magistrate Esther Mix asked her if she had any statement to make.A public defender, E. Richard Walker, said he had talked to her briefly and she was rational, but he would not say anything about the conversation, The A.P. reported.After Miss Fromme was arrested, Sacramento policemen went to Miss Fromme's apartment on P Street, in an, older section of the city, and seized two women there, according to Dwayne Keyes, United States Attorney.Mr. Keyes named them as Sandra Good, a Manson follower, and Susan Kathleen Murphy.According to Mr. Keyes, the two women were held in custody by the police, without being booked on any charge, until President Ford left Sacramento and were then released.Today's events occurred a little more than seven years after Robert F. Kennedy was shot and killed as he moved through a kitchen of a Los Angeles hotel from the ballroom where he had celebrated victory in the 1968 California primary for the Democratic Presidential nomination. Sirhan B. Sirhan was convicted of murdering Mr: Kennedy.President ThankfulMr. Ford has consistently mixed among spectators at public events on a schedule of travel that has accelerated in recent weeks. He visited Seattle, Wash., Portland, Ore., and Sacramento in the last two days and is scheduled to return to California in two weeks on a fourday official and political trip.
The President will also go to New Hampshire next Thursday to campaign in behalf of Louis C. Wyman, the Republican candidate in a rerun of the inconclusive Senate election in the state last November. Next Friday and Saturday, Mr. Ford will tour Missouri and Texas.He said following the incident here that he still believed it was essential to maintain contact with the public and would do so.I was thankful to the Secret Service for doing a superb job, he said, but once I saw that they had done it I thought I'd better get on with the rest of the day's schedule.After conferring privately with Governor Brown and bipartisan legislative leaders, Mr. Ford delivered without substantive diversion his prepared speech on crime. He said that the constitutional guarantee of domestic tranquility was as crucial as the search for international harmony.Peace on 10th Street in Sacramento is as important to the people who walk and work there as peace in the Sinai Desert. he said. One man or woman or child becomes just as dead from a switchblade slash as from a nuclear missile blast.He urged adoption at state Levels  and by Congress as a stimulant to the states  of Administration proposals to set mandatory prison terms for those who are convicted of using dangerous weapons to commit crime or who are repeat offenders.The legislators applauded, particularly when Mr. Ford said that it was time to place as much emphasis on the rights of innocent victims as on the rights of accused violators.Government should deal equally with all citizens, he said but if it must tilt a little to protect any element more than any other surely it should be those who cannot afford to be robbed of a day's food money, those who lack the strength to resist, those who even fear the consequences of complaining.
The President emphasized that he was not urging a vindictive attitude toward convicted offenders. But he said it was appropriate to take into account that the vast majority of victims of violent crime in this country are the poor, the old, the very young, the disadvantaged minorities, the people who crowd our urban centers, the most defenseless of our fellow citizens.Seemingly shaken by his experience but far from subdued, Mr. Ford returned to Washington late tonight.While en route, Mr. Ford telephoned his wife, Betty, from Air Force One to assure her that he was all right. He arrived back in the capital shortly before 11 P.M.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on September 6, 1975, on page 1 of the New York edition with the headline: TWO FEET AWAY.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
