Pros vs. Cons: A Guide to the Debate - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
WASHINGTON - FORGET, for a moment, the rhetoric from President Bush and his Democratic opponents over Social Security.Like actors in a Japanese Kabuki play, both sides spar constantly over generalities but hint only vaguely about the specific choices that lie just below the surface.Mr. Bush warns that Social Security is going bankrupt, and campaigns for "personal retirement accounts." Democrats charge that the president would shred a safety net that keeps millions of older people out of poverty.But below the surface, the battles are becoming ever more specific: "add-on" accounts versus "carve-out" accounts; "wage-indexing" versus "price indexing"; higher payroll taxes versus delayed retirement ages. Continue reading the main story
The choices are often expressed in the jargon of benefit formulas and actuarial analysis. But they would lead to profoundly different results for retirees in the future.
Here is a guide to the debate.How Big a Problem?President Bush often warns about an $11 trillion deficit, and others refer to a $4 trillion deficit. Both estimates come from the Social Security program's trustees, but neither sheds much light on its own.The lower estimate is the projected gap between payroll tax revenues and benefit costs over the next 75 years. The $11 trillion estimate is the gap projected to infinity.But the long-term problem is less daunting when it is compared with the amount of money people would be earning in the future. The trustees estimate that the 75-year shortfall is equal to about 1.92 percent of projected payrolls. In other words, the shortfall could be eliminated by immediately raising payroll taxes to 14.32 percent from 12.4 percent.That would be a painful jump in payroll taxes -- about $960 for a person who earns $50,000 a year -- or a comparable drop in benefits. But the projected gap is smaller than the cost of making President Bush's tax cuts permanent, and it is about one-sixth the long-term gap projected for Medicare.Looking at the CashAnother way to look at the problem is in terms of cash flow. The trustees project that Social Security will start running deficits in 2017, and reserves in the trust fund will be used up by 2041. Without any changes in the law, the government would have to slash benefits by about 27 percent to match up with incoming payroll taxes.But the cash-flow problems start much earlier, because drawing on the trust fund is different from Paris Hilton drawing on her inheritance. The government already spends the annual Social Security surpluses -- $156 billion in 2004 -- on regular government operations. If the surpluses disappear on schedule in 2017, the government will have to come up with cash equal to nearly two years of war costs in Iraq -- and more each year after that.According to the Social Security trustees, the annual shortfall will exceed $1 trillion in current dollars in 2040.How Private Accounts WorkOne crucial battle is over carve-out accounts and add-on accounts.Mr. Bush favors a carve-out approach, so named because the money for private accounts would be carved out of existing payroll taxes. Mr. Bush's plan would allow people to divert up to 4 percentage points of their payroll taxes -- about two-thirds of a worker's Social Security contribution -- to private accounts.
This approach would require huge borrowing over the next two decades, possibly more than $4 trillion, because the government would lose revenue while still having to pay full benefits to retirees who had already earned benefits under today's system.Mr. Bush and his supporters say the government would eventually get all the money back, because benefit costs would decline as retirees in the future relied more heavily on their private accounts.Democratic lawmakers say that would be fiscally reckless. But many Democrats support add-on accounts, like today's 401(k) plans, that would come on top of today's system.In themselves, neither type of account addresses the shortfall for Social Security.Mr. Bush's plan would cut benefits, but would also cut tax revenues. Add-on accounts would increase savings -- some would call it a new tax -- but would not reduce government obligations.At least for the moment, neither approach has enough support to pass Congress.What's a Clawback?If Mr. Bush's plan ever gets any traction in Congress, this could be a huge sleeper issue.For every dollar that a person diverts from taxes to a private account under Mr. Bush's plan, the government would reduce that person's retirement benefit by a dollar, compounded at an annual interest rate of 3 percent above inflation.In other words, a person would have to earn 3 percent a year on his or her private account -- 6 percent, at today's inflation rate -- to break even.The administration based this offset -- sometimes called a clawback -- on the supposedly risk-free average return on Treasury bonds.
But administration officials worry privately that the break-even point is too high. The actual yield on inflation-protected Treasury bonds, known as TIPS, is only 2 percent.A 2 percent offset would make personal accounts much less risky, and could mean thousands of dollars more for a person at retirement. But it could also greatly increase the cost of Mr. Bush's plan.What's an Increase?The last big changes in Social Security, based on recommendations to Congress from a bipartisan commission in 1983, sought to extend the program's solvency through a combination of tax increases and benefit cuts, and many experts say something similar is needed for the shortfalls ahead.Mr. Bush staunchly opposes any increase in the payroll tax rate, but he has not ruled out an increase in the payroll tax ceiling, a step that could raise just as much money.Under current law, payroll taxes are applied on wages and salaries only up to $90,000 a year. About 6 percent of workers earn more than that, accounting for about 15 percent of aggregate pay.According to the National Academy of Social Insurance, imposing the payroll tax on all pay would raise 116 percent of the expected shortfall.If the earnings ceiling were lifted, but people also earned extra benefits for their extra taxes, the academy estimated that the shortfall would still decline by 93 percent. That is because high-income people get a much smaller benefit for each dollar of payroll tax than low-income people do.Several polls show that raising the ceiling on payroll taxes is more popular than any proposal for cutting benefits. But that does not mean it can pass Congress; any such proposal would invite bitter opposition from millions of rich, educated and politically engaged voters.
What's a Cut?If Social Security benefits simply rose in line with inflation, experts say the program might not even have a shortfall. But under a law passed in 1977, benefits rise with wages, and wages rise about one percentage point a year on average faster than prices.Earlier this year, White House officials floated the idea of price indexing. A person's initial benefit would have the same buying power in the future as today, but it would be about half what is now promised to a worker starting off now.Actuarial experts say price indexing would save enough to close the projected $4 trillion shortfall. But experts say benefits would not keep up with rises in the standard of living. If benefits had remained constant ever since 1940, for example, retirees might have enough money for black-and-white television sets but not for cable television. More concretely, people would feel much poorer upon retirement because Social Security would replace a much lower share of a person's pre-retirement income.Under current law, Social Security benefits would replace about 40 percent of a middle-income worker's pay in 2065, according to the Congressional Budget Office. With price indexing, it would replace only 21.7 percent.A newer variant is progressive price indexing, which would apply the new formula only to people above a particular income level. Benefits for people in the bottom third of earnings would rise in line with the general standard of living.Proposed by Robert Pozen, a former executive at Fidelity Investments, the idea has many supporters in the White House.Government actuaries estimate the proposal could close about three-quarters of the projected shortfall over 75 years. But it could also deepen political divisions: high-income people already get a much smaller return on their payroll taxes than low-income workers, and that gap would widen every year.Should People Work Longer?Life expectancies have risen, and they are expected to keep rising in the future. Under changes imposed in 1983, the "normal retirement age" is gradually climbing to 67 from 65 for those reaching retirement in 2022.
If the normal retirement age was set at 67 immediately and raised to 68 over the next 12 years, the National Academy of Social Insurance estimated the shortfall would shrink by 28 percent. If the retirement age kept climbing gradually to 70, the shortfall would decline by 36 percent.Many experts contend that delayed retirement would simply reflect improving health care. Critics counter that it would be unfair to people with physically demanding jobs or lower-income people, who on average die younger than the well-off.Polls show none of the alternatives are popular with voters, which is why President Bush has yet to get specific and why even Republican lawmakers are pessimistic about passing a law this year. Continue reading the main story
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
