Facebook Gets Egg on its Face, Changes News Feed Feature
CompanyAbout UsLicensing & ReprintsArchiveMashable Careers
Facebook Gets Egg on its Face, Changes News Feed Feature
Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg just published an open letter to users apologizing for the privacy problems around the new News Feed and Mini Feed features (see Facebook's Facelift).
Zuckerberg says they were trying to provide members with a stream of information about their social lives, but failed to give enough control of these features.
He also points out that Facebook's aim is to help people share information, as well as having control of that information.
Facebook's extensive privacy settings, says Zuckerberg, are part of that mission:
We really messed this one up. When we launched News Feed and Mini-Feed we were trying to provide you with a stream of information about your social world. Instead, we did a bad job of explaining what the new features were and an even worse job of giving you control of them. I'd like to try to correct those errors now.
As a result, Facebook have added more advanced privacy controls for the News Feed feature, as many expected they would.
The new controls allow you to decide which types of stories go into your Mini-Feed and your friends News Feeds.
The feature also lists the actions that Facebook will never inform your friends about.
You can, for instance, remove profile information, photo comments, group discussions, wall posts, added friends, and your relationship status from both of the feeds.
The Mini Feed also allows the removal of time stamps.
And in the name of open discussion, Zuckerberg and the team will drop in to a group called "Free Flow of Information on the Internet" at 4pm EST tomorrow - they're inviting Facebook users to join them.
Will this be enough to reverse the Facebook backlash?
Facebook should have simply provided an "off" switch for the feature, allowing you to disable the feeds completely.
Instead, they've just added more confusing privacy controls that you'll need to tweak.
Opposition groups like "Students against Facebook News Feed might declare a small victory, but I don't think this battle is over yet.
is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. Powered by its own proprietary technology, Mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe.
Reproduction without explicit permission is prohibited. All Rights Reserved.
