JUDGE BARS DELAY FOR MISS MOORE - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
October 29, 1975, Page 13 The New York Times Archives
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 28A Federal district judge ordered a not guilty plea entered today for Sara Jane Moore to the charge that she had tried to assassinate President Ford.The judge, Samuel Conti, then brushed aside a defense request for a delay and said that Miss Moore, 45 years old, would go to trial Dec. 15 providing she is found competent in a hearing that he scheduled for Nov. 17.While the controversy swirled between her counsel, JamesHewitt, the Federal public defender here, and Judge Conti, Miss Moore sat at the counsel table and later stood quietly at thelectern below the judge's bench, a halfsmile flittingacross her face.She spoke only when she failed to understand the clerk's question whether her name is Sara Jane Moore. Would you repeat that? she asked.Miss Moore rested her hands, fingers laced, on the table or on the railing beneath the bench.Her wavy hair was ruffled. She wore peppermintstriped pants with a blue vest and longsleeved blouse.
Miss Moore; a pudgy, matronly figure, was before the court on a charge of having tried to murder tne President on Sept. 22 by firing a 38caliber revolver at him from across Post Street in downtown San Francisco.Today's hearing lasted about 15 minutes. The stageappeared set for Miss Moore's trial to be the test case through which a disputed section of the Speedy Trial Act, which became. effective Sept. 29, would be taken to a higher court forinterpretation.The fundamental dispute also is involved in the pending trial of Patricia Hearst, who allegedly joined her kidnappers in a bank robbery.At issue is a section of the act that appears to order, without
exception, that within 90 days of arrest, Federal defendants unable to be free on bail be put on trial or else be turned loose on their own recognizance pending trial.Miss Moore has been unable to raise $500,000 bail. Miss Hearst has not been admitted to bail.Decision PendingSo far Miss Hearst's lawyers, the judge hearing her case and the prosecutors have indicated that they will try to avoid confrontation on the interpretation of the new legislation.But this morning Judge Conti and Mr. Hewitt went directly to the dispute. Mr Hewitt asked that the arraignment, entry of plea: and setting of trial date be delayed until a competency hearing was held.We have not commenced any defense, Mr. Heviitt said.From Sept. 24 until last Friday Miss Moore was in a Federal jail in San Diego, where psychiatrists examined her for a report to the trial judge on her competency.
We have not undertaken to discuss the events with the defendant, Mr. Hewitt said. There are so many hazards to her right that we would not want to go to trial for some time.Judge Conti told Mr. Hewitt,You should have been talking to Congress, not me. At another point, he replied to the defender argument, You talk to the appellate court about that.The judge said he intended to go to trial within the 90day limit.Mental Test OrderedLOS ANGELES, Oct. 28 (UPI) A Federal judge today ordered a psychiatric examination for one of two men accused of having conspired to assassinate President Ford.The other defendant, Preston Mayor, 24 years old, of Warren County, Va., pleaded not guilty and was ordered to stand trial Dec. 16 before United States 'District Judge William P. Gray.Judge Gray went along with a request by the other defendant, Gary Steven DeSure, 32 for a psychiatrict examination Mr. DeSure will be sent to the Federal correctional institutio: in San Diego.
United Press International Sara Jane Moore on way to court session.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on October 29, 1975, on page 13 of the New York edition with the headline: JUDGE BARS DELAY FOR MISS MOORE.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
