HARTFORD POLICE TAKE CRASH BLAME - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
October 16, 1975, Page 17 The New York Times Archives
HARTFORD, Oct. 15The Hartford Police Department took the blame today for the traffic accident here last night involving President Ford's limousine. The President was not injured.Police Chief Hugo J. Masini said that because a motorcycle policeman had slipped on his assignment, there was no one controlling traffic at the intersection where a teenager's car crashed into the President's.I want to assure him that it will not happen again in the city of Hartford, Chief Masini said.The collision occurred shortly before 10 P.M. at Market and Talcott Streets, three blocks from the Civic Center, where the President had attended Republican fundraising event.On Way to Airport.The President was on his way back to Washington. After the collision, the slightly damaged limousine sped from the scene to Bradley International Airport, where Mr. Ford boarded his plane, Air Force One, for the flight back to the capital.In Washington, Lewis McClam, a special agent at Secret Service headquarters, confirmed that the agency had understood from the Hartford police that the intersection where the crash occurred would be protected. He said that the advance agent who had worked out details with the police had specifically asked for such protection.
Some intersections on the President's route in Hartford were blocked with patrol cars, a police spokesman Gordon Damon, said today. Others, he said, were protected by the 12 motorcycle policemen escorting the motorcade who sped off one at a time to get to an intersection ahead of the motorcade. They would stop traffic at the intersection and then catch up with the motorcade afterward.It is a normal technique, Mr. Damon said. He declined to say yet which policeman had missed his assignment, or what would be done to avoid this sort of human error again.Cooperate on Inquiry.The local police are considered responsible for traffic and security in the strests while the President is here, The Secret. Service bears the ultimate responsibility for the protection of the President.Samuel Sulliman, Secret Service agent in charge in Connecticut, said that the service's agents and the Hartford police were cooperating today on the investigation of the accident,  Because the Presidential limousine is armored, it was not badly damaged. The right front fender was caved in. There were some dents around the door handles. A chrome strip on the side had been knocked loose and a hubcap had been knocked away.After the accident, Secret Service agents sprang from the car behind the President's limousine, weapons drawn, and surrounded the six frightened, astonished teenagers in the yellow 1968 Buick sedan that had hit the President's car. The front end of the Buick was wrecked.Takes Sobriety Test.Four of the young people were boys, two were girls. None was hurt.At the command of the Secret Service agents, James Salamites of Meriden, a 19yearold sheetmetal worker, who was driving, backed his car off enough so that the Presidential limousine could be freed. The convoy was under way to the airport again in about half a minute.Mr. Salamites told the police that he had had a beer or two, but submitted willingly to a sobriety test. The results of the test had not been received today.Several witnesses told the police that the teenagers had gone past a green light and that the Presidential convoy, which came out of the narrower street, had gone past a red light.
A Presidential motorcade normally would do this, to avoid making a sitting target of the President, but so is traffic normally stopped to allow the motorcade through.Mr. Salamites was not charged, and he and his friends left Police Headquarters shortly after 2 A.M. today, more than four hours after the collision.It was a very unfortunate situation, he said on his way out. I'm glad that nobody, including the President, got hurt.Both he and the President's driver, Andrew Hutch, a Secret Service agent, have five days in which to submit to the Hartford police their reports of what happened.Under Connecticut's nofault insurance law, the responsibility for the accident does not have to be determined.Mr. Salamites is insured. In Detroit, the Ford Motor Company, which owns the limousine and leases it to the Government, said that there was full insurance coverage on the car, iut declined to disclose the dollar value, according to The Associated Press.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on October 16, 1975, on page 17 of the New York edition with the headline: HARTFORD POLICE TAKE CRASH BLAME.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
