Mrs. Ford: Something You Live With - 

September 6, 1975, Page 26  Archives
WASHINGTON, Sept. 5 (UPI) It's something you just have to live with, Betty Ford said today after learning of the assassination attempt on the President in Sacramento, Calif.I'm very grateful to the Secret Service and the great job they do, she said in comments relayed to reporters by Sheila Rabb Weidenfeld, her press secretary.Mrs. Weidenfeld said that Richard Keiser, head of the White House Secret Service detail, had telephoned Mrs. Ford to tell her of the episode. Mrs. Weidenfeld said that Mr. Keiser had told Mrs. Ford what happened and she was very grateful her husband was safe. The secretary said Mrs. Ford did not speak to her husband immediately after the event.Mrs. Weidenfeld said she did not know how Mrs. Ford felt about the President's travel pace or whether she thought that he should cut down the trips for security reasons.She was just gratified the Secret Service was there, she said.Meanwhile, the occurrence caused concern on Capital Hill.
It takes only one crackpot to produce chaos, the House Republican leader, John J. Rhodes, of Arizona, said after hearing about it.Echoes from earlier assasinations restirred Congressional debate about gun control.Representative Robert E. Bauman, Republican of Maryland, said today's happening did not change his opposition to gun control. There is not necessarily a correlation between gun control and the actigns of fanatics such as in this incident, he saidBut most initial reaction was very much for gun control. Representative John M. Murphy, Democrat of Staten Island, said, Perhaps the opponents of gun control legislation will soon become tired of losing their nation's most cherished leaders to an assassin's bullet.Vice President Rockefeller called it a tragic situation. That's the risk you take if you go into public life. Mr. Rockefeller was in Rochester. His security guard was increased heavily.Other men who might become President said they were sorry it happened but were glad Gerald Ford was safe.I am shocked by the incident but grateful and relieved that the President was unhurt, said Ronald Reagan, the former California Republican Governor.This is a terribly disturbing thing and I just thank God that the President was not harmed, said Senator Lloyd M. Bentsen, Democrat of Texas.Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, who was crippled in an assassination attempt in 1972, sent a personal telegram to the President following his receiving news of today's incident, a spokesman said.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, whose two brothers were assassinated, said he was enormously relieved that Mr. Ford was unharmed. He said the episode showed there wasalways the possibility of an act of violence against a public official.The President or other public officials should not become possessed by that threat or we can't do anything, Mr. Kennedy told reporters in Seattle.Governor Carey of New York suggested using some of the highly sophisticated methods that have been used for surveillance of people in our country to help protect the President.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on September 6, 1975, on page 26 of the New York edition with the headline: Mrs. Ford: Something You Live With.

