SECURITY; County Airport Gets Tank And More Police Officers - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
N.Y. / Region|SECURITY; County Airport Gets Tank And More Police Officers
SECURITY; County Airport Gets Tank And More Police Officers
PASSENGERS accustomed to the mild-mannered feel at Westchester County Airport might be intimidated by the blue military-style tank parked out front these days. But the airport manager, Joel Russell, said that the vehicle,
which belongs to the county police, ''sends a message about our police presence here.''''I like it,'' Mr. Russell said last week. ''It's symbolic and it has a practical use too.''Creating a warm impression for passengers is not a priority right now, he said. In fact, the airport is set to install a bomb-proof ''curtain'' in the parking lot to protect the nearby passenger terminal from a possible car bomb.Bomb squads with dogs routinely inspect all parked vehicles. As it is, half of the 1,200-car parking lot is already closed, because many parking spaces are within a 300-foot radius of the terminal, an area that must remain free of parked cars.After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the county airport was closed for several days. It is now operating under ''level four'' security regulations mandated by the Federal Aviation Administration.Dozens of county police officers are out in front of the terminal operating vehicle checkpoints. They stop all cars approaching the terminal and ask all passengers for driver's licenses and proof of official business at the airport. Officers search trunks and conduct random bag searches. Traffic congestion and delays often result.
Curb-side baggage check-in is prohibited, and the traffic lane in front of the main terminal is closed.But for all the activity outside, there is little bustle inside the terminal. Concessions -- including the restaurant, bar, snack bar and newsstand -- are often empty. The terminal was so quiet one weekday morning last week, a commercial was filmed there.One exception is the gate to boarding areas, where a half-dozen county police officers now oversee security workers inspecting baggage and passengers.Mr. Russell said airlines have resumed 80 percent of their scheduled flights, but with far fewer passengers flying. Staff and passengers say that planes are far from full.Edgar Herrera, who works at the Westchester Airport Newsstand, said that business has been less than half the past weeks, and that his hours have been cut.Last Tuesday, Sharon Resnick and her husband, Marvin, enjoyed all the room they wanted at the airport. They occupied a whole row of waiting chairs, sitting several seats apart and draping their belongings over four chairs between them.The Resnicks had spent five days visiting their daughter in Cos Cob and were heading home to Minneapolis.The county urges travelers to take taxis and limousines and get to the airport at least two hours in advance of their flights. The Resnicks did both, and now they were waiting.
''There are much more delays with the security, but there are no check-in lines because nobody's flying,'' Ms. Resnick said. ''Coming here, our plane was maybe one-third full.''She added: ''This is probably the safest time to be in the air. If terrorists are going to do anything else, they're not going to do it by air.''That was the sentiment among passengers at the airport bar too. They watched three television sets, one showing Quik Draw lottery results, another showing flight information and a third set showing the news. Travelers talked about stock market woes and speculated about why terrorists were able to hijack four American planes on Sep. 11.''These X-ray security guard jobs practically pay minimum wage,'' said Julie Leslin, 24, a radio broadcaster from Minneapolis. ''Half the time, these people aren't even paying attention.''Not all business is suffering at the airport. There are several charter plane companies there, and more travelers are choosing this way to fly instead of commercial airlines, said Millie Hernandez-Becker, who co-owns one of them, Westchester Air. Continue reading the main story
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
