Ford Marches and Shakes Hands in West Virginia - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Archives|Ford Marches and Shakes Hands in West Virginia
October 5, 1975, Page 57 The New York Times Archives
ELKINS, W. Va., Oct. 4 Thousands of West Virginians cheered and applauded President Ford today as he rode and walked more than a mile through this small mountain town as the grand marshal of an annual festival.Despite severe security precautions to protect the President, he alighted three times from a glassdomed protective limousine to mix with crowds standing along Elkins street.Mr. Ford, the honorary grand marshal of the 39th annual Mountain State Forest Festival, was the third President to participate in the event in central West Virginia. But neither Franklin D. Roosevelt nor Richard M. Nixon, who attended the festival while in office, joined as did Mr. Ford in the parade through a mile and a quarter of the town.More than 25,000 persons lined the streets, waving as the President at first sat in the confines of the bulletproof limousine. A few minutes after the parade began, Mr. Ford stood and poked his shoulders and head through an open sun roof of the limousine and began waving exuberantly to the crowds.Senator Jennings Randolph, who was riding with Mr. Ford, said later that the President had exclaimed, Jennings, I'm going to stand.
The Senator, a West Virginia Democrat, said that he had replied: You're the President. You make these decisions. These people are your friends.At three spots along the way, Mr. Ford scrambled out of the car and walked a block or less, slowly shaking hands with toddlers, teenagers and adults, who responded warmly.At least six and frequently as many as 10 Secret Service agents ringed the President as he walked. So did two men in clown costumes and with painted faces who seemed conspicuously unclownlike and, in all likelihood, were among Mr. Ford's protective agents.The difficulties entailed in traveling to and from Elkins, a town of 8,500 population nestled in a saucershaped valley between high knobs of the Appalachians, seemed to illustrate the determination with which the President is trying to make his presence felt across the country as the nation prepares to enter an election year.Neither the President's Air Force 707 jet nor the smaller White House Jetstar was able to land at the small Elkins airport. Mr. Ford therefore spent about 80 minutes traveling about 160 miles from Washington, over ridges of maple trees just turning gold, in a Marine Corps helicopter. The customary entourage of aides and reporters preceded Mr. Ford in five 15passenger twinengine Beechcraft planes.The vehicle brought to Elkins by the Secret Service for Mr. Ford's use today was the same car in which President Kermedy was ridingwith the top removedwhen he was shot and killed Nov. 22, 1963, in a Dallas motorcade. Ron Nessen, the White House press secrtary, said the vehicle had been substantially rebuilt since then.It has a glassedin passenger compartment and handles affixed to the rear so that security agents can ride on the car as it moves.Two agents did so today, and six others walked alongside the vehicle as the parade began. Mr. Ford had to lean forward to make even his head visible to the crowds when he was seated in the car.
Therefore he stood most of the time, and crowds on either side of the street were able to see clearly the President's head, shoulders and upper chest.Some White House officials said that Mr. Ford had emerged from the limousine only at preselected points where there were a number of security agents. One aide said the President stayed in the car until the Secret Service agents gave him the signal that it was safe to emerge.At times, reporters counted as many as 22 Secret Service agents in the immediate vicinity of Mr. Ford.Before leading the parade, Mr. Ford spoke from a lectern set up on the Elkins High School football field, where his helicopter touched down. Only political and civic leaders, reporters and a high school band were allowed onto the football field. The crowd in Elkins heard the President's remarks through loudspeakers on the streets.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on October 5, 1975, on page 57 of the New York edition with the headline: Ford Marches and Shakes Hands in West Virginia.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
