OLYMPICS: SECURITY; Safety Plans Are Working, Officials Say - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Sports|OLYMPICS: SECURITY; Safety Plans Are Working, Officials Say
OLYMPICS: SECURITY; Safety Plans Are Working, Officials Say
The first weekend of Olympic events produced several security problems that drew response from law enforcement personnel. But over all, officials said today, their security plans worked as intended with no disruption to the Games.''We are extremely pleased so far,'' said Robert Flowers, commander of the Utah Olympic Public Safety Command, which is coordinating the work of 60 law-enforcement agencies, and military personnel, protecting the Games.''But I'm one of those guys who doesn't get too excited,'' Flowers said. ''We have a long way to go.''Mitt Romney, president of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee, echoed Flowers's assessment but cited three security incidents over the weekend that caused some alarm and two traffic jams today that kept nearly 2,500 fans from seeing the early runs of the men's downhill ski competition, one of the Olympics' premier events, at the Snowbasin Ski Area in Huntsville.Romney said that the authorities responded to a pipe bomb found in an area north of Ogden, a town 15 miles from Snowbasin and site of the curling competition, which starts Monday. He said the bomb was probably the handicraft of local teenagers and did not appear related to the Olympics.
He also said an employee of the organizing committee had arrived at Snowbasin with a machete in his pickup truck. The authorities, Romney said, took the appropriate action and confiscated the machete, even though the employee, who was not identified, explained that he always keeps the knife in his truck. Romney declined to say whether the employee was disciplined or dismissed.The third incident involved a box of flares found in an alley in Salt Lake City. Romney said that he did not know how long they had been there but that law enforcement officials responded, treating the incident as a potential threat.The traffic jams were caused by an overflow of cars trying to reach Snowbasin. The first jam, Romney said, occurred after a parking lot became filled and the approach road from a freeway became filled with more cars. Romney, who was caught in the crush, tried to help by switching jackets with the police officer who travels with him and jumping into the road to wave drivers back onto the freeway they had just left.The second jam was caused by a bus that was stopped by the authorities near Snowbasin for not displaying the appropriate identification as an Olympic bus. A long line of vehicles waited behind, and again, Romney was caught in the middle.He said he told the officers questioning the bus driver that he would vouch for the bus and to allow it to pass and unload its passengers.Begging to be judged by how quickly problems were solved, not by the problems themselves, Romney said that organizers would try to alleviate backups sooner by using state helicopters. An official with the organizing committee said that was not possible today because Gov. Michael O. Leavitt was using one of the helicopters to tour Olympic sites with an old friend, Jack Kemp, the former housing secretary.Before today's problems, the authorities arrested five people on Friday night during protests outside Rice-Eccles Stadium, site of the opening ceremony, and there were several traffic accidents, Flowers said.Otherwise, the authorities tried to find ways to get people into the competition sites in a more timely fashion. At some places, the wait lasted 30 minutes and more as security officials inspected bags, jackets and other clothing.
Flowers blamed part of the waiting on the diligence of volunteers at checkpoints who are eager to conduct a thorough search, as well as on the forgetfulness of spectators, who have sometimes failed to empty their pockets of dangerous items.''People are trying to bring in all kinds of things, like pins,'' Flowers said. ''One person even tried to bring in a pair of scissors.''As the first day of the Games,
Friday was the most nerve-racking for security officials, with 50,000 spectators, including President Bush, in the stadium for the opening ceremony. But the long show, during which the president joined the United States team in the stands to watch some of the festivities, came and went without reported incident.Competition sites got their first tests over the next two days, and other than the waits at some, no disruptions were reported.''The biggest concern is every time a new venue opens for the first time, they are repeating the same issues the other ones faced,'' Flowers said. ''But they'll straighten out.'' Continue reading the main story
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
