2 Charged With Plotting to Kill Ford Sept. 5 in Sacramento - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Archives|2 Charged With Plotting to Kill Ford Sept. 5 in Sacramento
2 Charged With Plotting to Kill Ford Sept. 5 in Sacramento
October 21, 1975, Page 19 The New York Times Archives
LOS ANGELES, Oct. 20 (UPI) Two men in custody in Santa Barbara, Calif., were indicted today by a grand jury on charges of conspiring to assassinate President Ford last Sept. 5 in Sacramento, Calif., by shooting him at the State Capitol after blowing up street sewers as a diversion.The target date of the alleged plot was the same day Lynette Alice Fromme was arrested for allegedly pointing a gun at the President near the State Capitol, but officials said that there was no connection between her
and the two indicted men.The alleged plot, which was disclosed with the filing of the indictment in United States District Court here was the third apparent threat on Mr. Ford's life during his visits to California last month.The other alleged attempt on the President's life occurred in San Francisco on Sept. 22 when Sara Jane Moore allegedly fired a gun at him from a distance, missing her target.The two indicted men, who were arrested Aug. 26 in Santa Barbara on a burglary charge, were identified as Gary Steven DeSure, 31 years old, said to be a fugitive from the Montana State Hospital, and Preston Michael Mayo, 24, of Warren County, Va.
William Kelleher, United States Attorney, has placed detainers on them with Santa Barbara County authorities for bonds of $100,000 each.The indictment alleged that the pair went from Glacier, Mont., to California in an attempt to accomplish their conspiracy.After their arrest on the burglary charge, Mr. DeSure allegedly told a Santa Barbara detective, Robert Zapata, that he and Mr. Mayo had planned to steal weapons and dynamite from a San Francisco armory and try to kill President Ford.Acting on information supplied by Santa Barbara County authorities, Secret Service agents found a car parked at HollywoodBurbank Airport containing a written plan for the alleged assassination attempt.Both were charged with participating from Aug. 12 to Sept. 15 in a conspiracy to kill the President, and each was charged specifically with making threats on the President's life on Aug. 27.The grand jury said that the suspects wrote details pertaining to the equipment and plans necessary to accomplish the assassination attempt on Aug. 19. But both were arrested on state theft charges by the Santa Barbara sheriff's department on Aug. 26 and have been held in
custody since.The indictment gave this description of the alleged plans:The defendants DeSure and Mayo would plant explosives in the street sewer in the vicinity of the Capitol Building, Sacramento, Calif. The defendant DeSure would detonate the explosives and stand as a look out. The defendant Mayo would fire a shot at the President Gerald R. Ford.The indictment did not make clear whether the sewer explosion allegedly planned was to create a diversion that would make it easier to carry out an assassination or to provide an easier getaway opportunity.
The grand jury's list of acts committed in furtherance of the alleged plot consisted mainly of travels about the country, none having any apparent connectior with movements by President Ford.The episode as described by the jury began with a visit of the two suspects to Glacier National Park in Montana on Aug. 13. This was followed by visits to Cincinnati on Aug. 17 Dickson, Tnn., on Aug. 19; Mid west City. Okla., on Aug. 20, and Amarillb, Tex., on Aug. 21, according to the jury.On Aug. 23, the grand jury said, the two men abandoned a 1974 ,Datsun at the HollywoodBurbank Airport and later that day rented a car in Woodland Hills, Calif. They visited Varr Nuys, Calif.. on Aug 23 and Santa Barbara on Aug 24, the grand jury said.The indictment said they wrote down details of the alleged plot on the day of their visit to Dickson, Tenn.Bid to Subpoena Ford DueSACRAMENTO, Calif., Oct. 20 (AP)Lynette Alice Fromme will attempt to subpoena President Ford to testify at her trial on a charge she tried to kill Mr. Ford, her attorney said today.John Virga said that Miss Fromme's request to subpoena the President will be presented tomorrow in Federal Court along with a request for a delay in Miss Fromme's trial, now set to start in November.One of the prosecution's main points is that the gun clicked; our contention is that never happened. Mr. Virga said of the Sept. 5 episode.A Secret Service man says he wrestled a loaded gun from Miss Fromme two feet away from the President.Mr. Ford's testimony could be very significant on the issue of whether or not she actually intended to kill him, Mr. Virga said.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on October 21, 1975, on page 19 of the New York edition with the headline: 2 Charged With Plotting to Kill Ford Sept. 5 in Sacramento.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
