GUARDS FOR FORD IN BONN ASSAILED - 

October 5, 1975, Page 58  Archives
BONN, Oct. 4A highranking West German police official says President Ford's security guards were arrogant and overbearing and sometimes hampered protection for the President during his 36hour visit here last July.when you look back at it, Superintendent Winfried Knder wrote in the September issue of a police union magazine, it seems as if Germany had just lost the war yesterday. The question arises, how the Americans would react if our President took uniformed rangers of the Bundeswehr on a U.S.A. visit and stationed them in front of the White House as additional security.During Mr. Ford's visit starting July 26 some members of Chancellor Helmut Schmidt's staff complained that the Secret Service would not let them into their own offices without showing identification. Later, an American official said, Now I've got to take weeks to go around and apologize to everybody for the security people.Mr. Ford was almost constantly surrounded by guards during his visit, and stayed in the isolation of Gymnich Castle, 30 minutes from Bonn. Even during a visit to a picnic for American soldiers irk Kirchgns, bodyguards in civilian clothes kept the President away from the G.I.'s and their families.Mr. Pnder was the senior security officer at the CologneBonn Airport when Air Force One arrived.During President Ford's last visit there were about 30 American security officials at the CologneBonn Airport alone, he writes. Asked to leave the apron before the landing, they gave only a No as an answer. One said. No, I'm a marine; another I'm chief Secret Servrice man or, I'm responsible for the safety of this airport, the Superintendent maintained.
Because of their numbers, he contended, it was difficult to control what was going on . . . where they were standing, they created a danger for the security of the airport. Airplanes were rolling around them, helicopters were landing and taking off. They waved them off as if they were bicycles.He added: However you want to describe them, they were not there as advisers, but they constantly tried to impose their views, during the preparatory phase as well as during the actual visit. They were mostly polite but occasionally also arrogant and overbearing. It should not go unsaid that they also helped us in some areas. But what they did here recalls the Occupation period of the first postwar years.Mr. Minder said in a telephone interview that what I wrote was my private opinion. I thought there were just too many Army, Secret Service and Marine guards out there.His article concludes, It's time the German police were granted full sovereignty, even when the Americans are among us.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on October 5, 1975, on page 58 of the New York edition with the headline: GUARDS FOR FORD IN BONN ASSAILED.

