Congo Clamps Down for Election - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
The Republic of Congos government has ordered the countrys two largest telecommunications providers to block all communications during a presidential election on Sunday for security reasons, a government official said Saturday.The decision will cause inconvenience and possible alarm in a country where many rely on cellphone communication, and a prominent government critic said it would impede the work of election monitors.President Denis Sassou Nguesso is expected to extend his long rule in a contest against eight opponents, including a retired general, Jean-Marie Mokoko, who is seen as the strongest challenger.Mr. Mokoko was summoned to the state security headquarters on Saturday as part of a continuing security investigation, said Charles Zacharie Bowao, the president of the opposition coalition to which Mr. Mokoko belongs.
The Interior Ministry sent a letter to the telecommunications companies MTN Congo and Airtel Congo to tell them to cut off communication on March 20 and 21 for reasons of security and public tranquillity.The move to block communications was unusual in the context of an election in Africa, although Uganda shut down Twitter, Facebook and the messaging service WhatsApp on the day of its presidential election last month.Joe Washington, the president of the Ebina Foundation, an activist group, criticized the decision, saying, There are other things to think about besides elections.He added, Everything is being done so that the election is not transparent.Mr. Sassou Nguesso has led Congo for 32 of the past 37 years and pushed through constitutional changes in October to remove term and age limits that would have prevented him from running for office again. Continue reading the main story
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
