Security Software Makers Upset Over Windows Vista - New York Times
campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/technology/04soft.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/technology, position: Bar1
Leading security software companies, including Symantec and
Microsofts new Windows Vista operating system hinders them and steers users to Microsofts security offerings.
The security software makers have not made any antitrust complaints, but they have talked to authorities at the European Commission and to the technical committee that oversees Microsofts antitrust settlement with the Justice Department, executives at the companies said yesterday.In Europe, F-Secure, a Finnish security software company, has joined American companies in criticizing the design of Windows Vista, which is scheduled to be available to business customers in November and to consumers in January. The issues raised by the companies, in interviews yesterday, touch on broad themes of consumer choice and innovations that surfaced in previous antitrust suits against Microsoft.Were trying to make sure that consumers have choice in security software and that future innovation is not prohibited in a Microsoft world, said Enrique T. Salem, group president for consumer products and services at Symantec.Microsoft says that it has made changes in Vista from previous
versions of Windows, such as not allowing anyone to fiddle with the core, or kernel, of the operating system.
Such changes, Microsoft insists, were made to cope with the proliferation of Internet-borne viruses and other malicious software. Most software vandals aim at Microsofts desktop products, especially Windows, which runs on more than 90 percent of the worlds personal computers.With Vista, Microsoft will be entering the $4.4 billion-a-year market for desktop security software  and compete for the first time with companies like Symantec and McAfee. Microsoft insists there will
be plenty of opportunity for the security specialists, but the company is taking responsibility for a basic level of security software that is included in Windows.The shift, said Ben Fathi, Microsofts corporate vice president for security, is not an anticompetitive step but merely a response to customers pleas to provide them a more secure, stable and reliable computing experience on Windows.
Its our way of improving the health of the machine, Mr. Fathi said.Symantec and McAfee, Mr. Fathi said, are the largest of 150 security software companies that Microsoft deals with. They are the most vocal, he said, because they have the largest vested interest in the old way of doing things, which is inherently less secure.They need to continue to innovate as well, he said.The dispute between the security software companies and Microsoft has been brewing for more than a year, and
negotiations are at an impasse. The security companies talks with regulators in Europe and the court-appointed technical committee in the United States go back months.But now, with Vista shipping soon, the companies are emphatically making their complaints public. On Monday, McAfee took a full-page advertisement in The Financial Times in the form of a letter to computer users around the world under the headline, Microsoft Increasing Security Risk with Vista. In an interview yesterday, George Samenuk, chief executive of McAfee, pointed to two design features in Vista that he said undermined rivals and led users to Microsofts security software. First, Mr. Samenuk said, denying outside software companies access to the Windows kernel  access permitted in earlier versions of Windows and other operating systems  would make it more difficult to develop innovative security products. Second, he said Vista would direct users to a Microsoft security console  an on-screen dashboard called Windows Security Center  that could not easily be shut off and replaced with security consoles from other suppliers. These are two major steps backward for security and for customers, Mr. Samenuk said.The security companies say they want an easier way for users to switch off Microsofts security console, and a way to provide security software companies authenticated access to the Vista kernel while keeping software vandals out. The kernel lockdown applies only to the more powerful 64-bit versions of Vista, which will gradually take over from todays 32-bit
standard. Microsoft, industry analysts say, seems to have adopted a draconian approach. They are removing choice in the name of security, said Neil MacDonald, an analyst at Gartner, a technology research firm.
There ought to be a mechanism for introducing trusted code into the kernel. It should be doable.Even security companies that are working closely with Microsoft  and not publicly criticizing the company  have their doubts about Microsofts decision to prevent all outsiders from dipping deep into the Vista operating system.
Trend Micro, a security software maker, collaborates with Microsoft, including supplying the virus-scanning software for Hotmail, Microsofts Web-based e-mail.Lane Bess, general manager for consumer products and services for Trend Micro, said he
shared some of the concerns expressed by Symantec and McAfee. But we try to work through any issues we have with Microsoft, Mr. Bess said, not by taking a shot across the companys bow and suggesting that there might be antitrust action later.Trend Micros concern, he said, is the possibility that limiting access to the Vista kernel could limit the diversity of security-protection tools to fight malicious software. Im not sure that a company that has had as much trouble securing its users from malware as Microsoft should be going it alone, he said. Kevin J. OBrien contributed reporting.
Related ArticlesINTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Plan for Vista Draws Warning To Microsoft From Europe(September 13, 2006)U.S. Warns PC Users Of Flaw in Windows(August 10, 2006)At Microsoft, Interlopers Sound Off On Security(October 17, 2005)TECHNOLOGY; Microsoft Says It Will Offer Virus Defense(May 13, 2005)
Related SearchesMicrosoft CorpComputer SecurityComputer SoftwareMcAfee, Incorporated
Amazon Leans on Government in Its Quest to Be a Delivery Powerhouse
Bits: Flinging Emojis, Twitch Chatters Revel as Julia Child Cooks
Its Discounted, but Is It a Deal? How List Prices Lost Their Meaning
Breaking Down Apples iPhone Fight With the U.S. Government
Tech Fix: Siri, Alexa and Other Virtual Assistants Put to the Test
App Smart: Checklists and Tips to Help Streamline Spring Cleaning
Amazon Leans on Government in Its Quest to Be a Delivery Powerhouse
Apple's Latest Product Event Isn't Causing a Big Stir
Apple Encryption Engineers, if Ordered to Unlock iPhone, Might Resist
Fans Demand Details After Death of a 13-Year-Old YouTube Star
Bits: Flinging Emojis, Twitch Chatters Revel as Julia Child Cooks
Instagram May Change Your Feed, Personalizing It With an Algorithm
ZTE Document Raises Questions About Huawei and Sanctions
Twitter Rules Out Long Tweets, Sticking to 140-Character Limit
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/technology/04soft.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/technology, position: Inv1
