Private Data Collected in New York Apps Contest Is Released - NYTimes.com
campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/nyregion/08apps.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/nyregion, position: Bar1
City Errantly Releases Private Data Gathered in Apps Contest
On Tuesday, New York City rolled out the next phase of its NYC BigApps competition, an initiative that will supply local programmers and developers with a stockpile of raw municipal data sets to build applications for the Web and mobile phones.
But in what appears to have been an accidental data breach, the city provided, as part of one data set, private information from representatives of womens groups. A data file containing information on 1,100 such groups that had registered with the citys Commission on Womens Issues included fields for each participants secret question and answer. (Participants had been asked for the question and answer to log in to the Womens Resource Network, a Web site organized by the commission.) In a statement on Wednesday, the citys Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications acknowledged the lapse and said it had taken steps to rectify the situation. Nicholas T. Sbordone, a spokesman for the department, said in a statement: With an unprecedented amount of open city data comes an added level of responsibility to safeguard personal information, a charge the city  and NYC BigApps administrators  takes most seriously. We immediately addressed the issues with the two columns of data out of more than 170 data sets across 30 city agencies and commissions, and reviewed all other information to ensure no similar instances.Officials added that the city had immediately removed the data set from its site after learning about the breach and that there was no indication that anyone had tried to use the private information to log in to the Womens Resource Network.Some people whose data was provided as part of the breach expressed dismay when contacted about the matter. Thats not too good, said Sheryl H. Fields, who learned that the maiden name of her deceased mother, Valerie Holland, was part of the data set released by the city. When you give a secret question, you dont expect it to get published. Ms. Fields had provided the information in her former position as president of the Brooklyn chapter of the International Association of Administrative Professionals. Im not the contact person for them anymore, she added.Although Ms. Fieldss mother died three years ago, Ms. Fields said, Its private information.Another person whose data was released was Leah Shamalov, director of communications and special events for the Russian American Foundation. Ms. Shamalovs secret data
was the name of her dog, Smokey. Im not really that concerned, Ms. Shamalov said. It wasnt something like a top-secret Web site. If you came back and told me my credit card company had released my information, I would be more concerned.Ms. Shamalov added: Smokey died years ago. He was the only pet my family ever had. Angeline Martyn, the communications director for Americans for Unfpa, a group that supports womens rights and the United Nations Population Fund, learned that her secret question  her bosss least-favorite color  was no longer so secret. I came up with that one because I knew everyone in the office would know the answer, Ms. Martyn said, adding, Im glad the city has caught the error.
A version of this article appeared in print on October 8, 2009, on page A33 of the New York edition.
Republican Leaders Map a Strategy to Derail Donald Trump
Republican Leaders Map a Strategy to Derail Donald Trump
Nicholas Kristof: The Worlds Modern-Day Lepers: Women With Fistulas
Cubans Pack the Streets for a Glimpse of President Obama
Obama Lands in Cuba With a Pledge to Listen to Its People
Spain Bus Crash Kills 13 Exchange Students; 34 Injured
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/nyregion/08apps.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/nyregion, position: Inv1
