Professor Main Target of Assault on Twitter - NYTimes.com
campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/technology/internet/08twitter.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/technology/internet, position: Bar1
The Web attacks on Thursday and Friday kept millions of people from using sites like Twitter.
The cyberattacks Thursday and Friday on Twitter and other popular Web services disrupted the lives of hundreds of millions of Internet users, but the principal target appeared to be one man: a 34-year-old economics professor from the republic of Georgia.
During the assault  the latest eruption in a yearlong skirmish between nationalistic hackers in Russia and Georgia  unidentified attackers sent millions of spam e-mail messages and bombarded Twitter, Facebook and other services with junk messages. The blitz was an attempt to block the professors Web pages, where he was revisiting the events leading up to the brief territorial war between Russia and Georgia that began a year ago. The attacks were the equivalent of bombing a TV station because you dont like one of the newscasters, Mikko Hyppnen, chief research officer of the Internet security firm F-Secure, said in a blog post. The amount of collateral damage is huge. Millions of users of Twitter, LiveJournal and Facebook have been experiencing problems because of this attack. The blogger, a refugee from
the Abkhazia region, a territory on the Black Sea disputed between Russia and Georgia, writes under the name Cyxymu,
but identified himself only by the name Giorgi in a telephone interview. Giorgi, who said he taught at Sukhumi State University, first noticed Thursday afternoon that LiveJournal, a popular blogging platform, was not working for him. I decided to go to Facebook, he said. And Facebook didnt work. Then I went to Twitter, and Twitter didnt work. How strange, I thought, What a coincidence they all dont work at once.Security experts say that it is nearly impossible to determine who exactly is behind the attack, which disrupted access to Twitter, Facebook, LiveJournal and some Google sites on Thursday and continued to affect many Twitter users into Friday evening. But Beth Jones, an analyst with the Internet security firm Sophos, said the assault occurred in two stages. Early Thursday, the attackers sent out a wave of spam under the name Cyxymu, which is a Latin transliteration of the Cyrillic name of the capital of Abkhazia, Sukhumi. This technique, a joe job, is intended to discredit a Web user by making him appear to be the source of a large amount of junk e-mail. These hackers wanted to make him look responsible for millions of spam e-mails, said Ms. Jones. The messages contained links to Giorgis accounts on several social networks and Web sites, including
The next leg of the attack, Ms. Jones said, was a distributed denial of service, or D.D.O.S., attack aimed at knocking Giorgi off the Web. The hackers used a botnet, a network of thousands of malware-infected personal computers, to direct huge amounts of junk traffic to Cyxymus pages on Twitter, LiveJournal, YouTube and Facebook in an attempt to disable them, Ms. Jones said. The junk messages overwhelmed the services, slowing them, and in the case of Twitter and LiveJournal, shutting them down entirely for a time. Giorgi said his pages were providing a place for refugees from Abkhazia to exchange memories of their home. The Twitter page had a sepia photograph of a palm-lined city street. It was nostalgia, he said.This week, he began posting day-by-day accounts of the run-up to the conflict that drew partly on posts from his readers inside of Abkhazia, who he said had been describing how the Russian army staged its forces in the region in early August 2008.I feel a bit ashamed for the people who lost service because my blog was blocked, said Giorgi. The hundreds of millions of Internet users affected were simply collateral damage, said Ms. Jones.The attacks and their aftermath show just how vital Web tools and services are becoming to political discourse  and how vulnerable they are to disruption. They arent set up to play the role of a global communications network, but very quickly theyve come to represent that, said John Palfrey, a law professor and co-director of Harvard Universitys Berkman Center for Internet and Society. The attacks that felled Twitter shed light on the fragility of the popular microblogging service, especially compared to its competitor Facebook, which quickly recovered from the pummeling, said Stefan Tanase, a researcher at Kaspersky Lab, an Internet security firm. Twitter, a small San Francisco company, has been struggling to improve its security even as it tries to manage hypergrowth in the number of users and messages it handles. But, Mr. Tanase said, Twitter is definitely a company that is learning fast and reacting fast.The outage frustrated many Twitter users. Some migrated over to better-functioning social networks like Facebook and FriendFeed to send messages and follow conversations, said Jeremiah Owyang, an analyst at Forrester Research and a prolific tweeter.
If Twitter goes down or shuts down permanently, the conversation just shifts somewhere else, he said.
For others, solving the problem wasnt quite as simple. Soren Macbeth, founder and chief executive of StockTwits, a service that lets investors trade news and information about companies, said his service, which is built on Twitters infrastructure, was offline Thursday and still hadnt fully recovered Friday.Having the service be intermittent is almost worse than having it be totally down, he said. It makes it seem more like our issue, a problem with our service. Mr. Macbeth said the service, which receives as many as 10,000 postings a day, had been at Twitters mercy since its inception. Its very challenging to run a business on top of Twitter, he said.
The difficulties of working with Twitter had already prompted StockTwits to begin developing a stand-alone platform, which the company plans to introduce on Sept. 1. But for most businesses, Twitter is merely a supplemental marketing tool. Ben Van Leeuwen, who runs trucks that serve scoops of ice cream to customers around New York City, said he didnt even notice the service was down. Sales were the same yesterday as they were the day before, he said.Aaron Magness, who heads up new business development and marketing at Zappos.com, an online shoe retailer with a sizable following on Twitter, said in an e-mail message that the outage didnt affect the company. Twitter is one of many communication tools we utilize, he said. Luckily, we love talking to our customers and Twitter going down doesnt impact our phones."
A version of this article appeared in print on August 8, 2009, on page B1 of the New York edition.
Past CoverageMILITARY ANALYSIS; Russians Melded Old-School Blitz With Modern Military Tactics(August 17, 2008)Before the Gunfire, Cyberattacks(August 13, 2008)WORLD BRIEFING | EUROPE; Web Sites Attacked In Ex-Republics(July 24, 2008)
Amazon Leans on Government in Its Quest to Be a Delivery Powerhouse
Bits: Flinging Emojis, Twitch Chatters Revel as Julia Child Cooks
Its Discounted, but Is It a Deal? How List Prices Lost Their Meaning
Breaking Down Apples iPhone Fight With the U.S. Government
Tech Fix: Siri, Alexa and Other Virtual Assistants Put to the Test
App Smart: Checklists and Tips to Help Streamline Spring Cleaning
Amazon Leans on Government in Its Quest to Be a Delivery Powerhouse
Apple's Latest Product Event Isn't Causing a Big Stir
Apple Encryption Engineers, if Ordered to Unlock iPhone, Might Resist
Fans Demand Details After Death of a 13-Year-Old YouTube Star
Bits: Flinging Emojis, Twitch Chatters Revel as Julia Child Cooks
Instagram May Change Your Feed, Personalizing It With an Algorithm
ZTE Document Raises Questions About Huawei and Sanctions
Twitter Rules Out Long Tweets, Sticking to 140-Character Limit
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/technology/internet/08twitter.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/technology/internet, position: Inv1
