Suit Seeks to Ensure Ballot Safety in New Jersey - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
N.Y. / Region|Suit Seeks to Ensure Ballot Safety in New Jersey
TRENTON, Feb. 12  Voters rights activists want a judge to prevent the state from using more than 10,000 electronic voting machines that they say are not properly certified and are highly vulnerable to computer hackers.Penny M. Venetis, a lawyer for the group, said on Monday that elections officials did not follow their own procedures in preparing the machines for use in most of New Jerseys 21 counties. On behalf of the group, Ms. Venetis filed court papers last week asking that the machines be withheld from use.Opponents of the voting machines have said that there are lingering security questions related to their use.New Jersey elections officials have tried to address such concerns by requiring that all voting machines be configured to provide a printed copy of results as a backup to the electronic tally by January 2008.A hearing is scheduled for Friday in the courtroom of Linda R. Feinberg, a Mercer County assignment judge. Should Judge Feinberg side with the activists, elections officials would be sent scrambling for an alternative before the statewide school board elections on April 17.
A spokesman for the State Division of Elections, David Wald, declined to comment on the filing.Ms. Venetiss court papers referred to the research of a Princeton University computer science professor, Andrew W. Appel, who last month bought five electronic voting machines from an Internet seller specializing in used government supplies.One of his students was able to open up these machines in about seven seconds, Ms. Venetis said in an interview. Her filing was reported this week in
The Sunday Star-Ledger.Mr. Appel, an expert in computer security, said
he bought the machines for about $16.40 each and spent the past month studying the computer software, which he said could be subverted in about 10 minutes by someone with the equivalent of a bachelors degree in computer science.It was about as easy as I expected, Mr. Appel said in a telephone interview on Monday.All that was needed to alter the machine, which Ms. Venetis said was similar to those planned for use in New Jersey, was picking a lock, removing 10 screws and replacing three or four memory chips.Mr. Appel said that a more secure voting system would have a separate paper ballot that could be verified by voters.The fact that these machines are so easy to hack is a reminder of how much we need to get there, he said.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Suit Seeks To Ensure Ballot Safety In New Jersey.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
