How Not to Say Sorry After a Blunder Affecting Millions - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|How Not to Say Sorry After a Blunder Affecting Millions
How Not to Say Sorry After a Blunder Affecting Millions
Eating crow is a fine art. Susan Combs hasnt mastered it.The state comptroller of public accounts has been ducking responsibility ever since revealing that her agency had put the names and Social Security numbers of 3.5 million people in a publicly available spot on the comptrollers state Web site.For a year.Think anyone noticed what was lying around? Nobody knows, to tell you the truth. The comptroller flailed in the week after the announcement, firing some subordinates, and when sought by the news media, sending her P.R. people to answer the sharp questions. Before lawmakers, she tried to blame the agencies that sent her the information in the first place. Those agencies put it right back on her desk, saying the info from their shops  the Teacher Retirement System, the Employees Retirement System and the Texas Workforce Commission  had been sent over in properly encrypted form. It was the comptrollers office that left it, unencrypted, on a public server. For a year.Ms. Combs responded to this self-inflicted challenge with a letter to each person whose name and Social Security number were left out for the thieves. The letter is a masterpiece of equivocation and prevarication, leaving a false impression without telling an outright lie.Please be aware that we have no indication that your personal information has been misused in any way.They also dont have any indication that it hasnt. All they know is that this particular pie was on the shelf for a year and that they dont know whether anyone took a slice of it.
The data files were immediately taken offline and secured.The letter doesnt say anything about the year that lapsed before they were immediately secured.It says the agency created a Web site and some FAQs and an e-mail address where the current and former state employees and others who were affected can get more information on the mess.
But lets say youre not one of those folks affected or dont care about them. Lets say youre in a forgiving mood or youre a Combs chum, or a legislative budget-writer so dependent on the comptroller for good news that youre willing to let this one go.This is the agency that collects taxes for the State of Texas. It doesnt have a lot of tax information about individuals, since Texas doesnt have a personal income tax. But its got a lot of sensitive and proprietary information about the businesses in the state. The agencys officials have made an explicit deal with those taxpayers: send us the information we need to make sure youre paying the taxes you owe and well never share it with anyone unless theyre either a tax collector or in law enforcement or in the Legislature (thats right, kids  Texas legislators have the legal authority to peek at your books).Thats a setup to put this line from the letter in proper context: As an added precaution, we are actively working with law enforcement and have contacted all major credit reporting agencies to notify them of this issue.Sure they have. What are they going to do? Throw the F.B.I. and the Texas attorney general out of the building? Those two agencies have begun a criminal investigation.The letter ends with the only thing approaching an apology: We sincerely regret that this incident occurred. Thank you for your shared vigilance at a time when the potential for cyber crime remains a great threat.A threat aided and abetted by a state agency thats supposed to be expert at locking up sensitive information.
The comptrollers name isnt on the letterhead, mentioned in the text or at the bottom of the letter. Before all of this came to light, Ms. Combs was busy planning a run for lieutenant governor, if that job comes open in 2014, and has been telling political people and potential supporters that shell announce soon after the current legislative session.Her signature isnt on the 3.5 million form letters that went out. Holy identity theft, Batman, thats a lot of voters  equivalent to about one of every five adults in Texas. The letters are signed instead by Victor Gonzalez, chief technology officer for the comptrollers office.He resigned last Friday, before all of the letters had even been delivered.
A version of this article appears in print on April 22, 2011, on page A21A of the National edition with the headline: How Not to Say Sorry After a Blunder Affecting Millions.
A City Built on Oil Discovers How Precious Its Water Can Be
A City Built on Oil Discovers How Precious Its Water Can Be
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
