Clear, Which Offered Fast Airport Security Service, Closes - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|Company Closes Its Airport Screening Lines
Verified Identity Pass, a company that promised to speed passengers through airport security checkpoints for an annual fee, has shut down. The move leaves some frequent fliers looking for options to avoid long screening lines and wondering what will happen to the personal information that they provided the company.The company said it was not able to negotiate a deal with its creditors. Late Monday, its Clear fast-lane security check service stopped operations abruptly. Some members received e-mail messages about the closing, while others found out at the airport when they discovered Clear lanes were cordoned off.Lois Easton, an education consultant from Boulder, Colo., was turned away by two security officials Tuesday morning from a Clear lane at Denver International Airport. She was headed on a 10-day business trip with stops in Newark and Tallahassee, Fla.I did buy a three-year membership, so Im not very happy about all of this, Ms. Easton said. Nearby, workers were dismantling three Clear screening machines.I travel a lot for business, often every week, Ms. Easton added. Its in enough of the airports Im in so its worth it. It saves me a lot of time, a lot of stress.
Clear was founded in 2003 by Steven Brill, the businessman behind media ventures like CourtTV and American Lawyer magazine. It originated with a program set up by the Transportation Security Administration called Registered Traveler, intended to shrink swollen security lines in the wake of Sept. 11. Clear operated at about 20 airports and charged users $100 to $200 a year.Mr. Brill, who left the company in February when a group of investors took control of the company, did not
provide any specifics about why the company had shut down.I can only speculate about the causes of the companys demise, he said. What I do know for sure, however, is that the need for intelligent risk management hasnt diminished and that programs like Clear should have a role in our future.Now that the service is defunct, some wonder what will happen to the personal information held by Verified. The companys Clear service required members fingerprints, iris scans and other identifying traits.The shutdown probably means that Clears approximately 165,000 members will not get their money back.Last year, the T.S.A. suspended the Clear program temporarily after a laptop containing pre-enrollment records of about 33,000 customers was lost at San Francisco International Airport.The agency requires Registered Traveler service providers, including Clear, to encrypt files containing participants sensitive personal information.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Company Closes Its Airport Screening Lines.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
