Harnessing the Web to Sell Online Security - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Technology|Harnessing the Web to Sell Online Security
Craig Forman, an EarthLink executive vice president over security sales, among company mail servers in Atlanta.
THIRTY percent of Internet users still do not trust technology enough to buy something online. But will they use the Web to buy security software?The Internet service provider EarthLink hopes that they will. The company said it would announce new security services today, to be available to both EarthLink users and others, aimed at thwarting new hacking techniques that specialists regard as particularly insidious. The new services could also help EarthLink fortify its flagging bottom line and reduce customer service calls from users afflicted by computer viruses.The whole axis of the world is moving toward an Internet-based economy, said Craig Forman, an EarthLink executive vice president, who, among other things, oversees sales of security services. Security is a critical portion of the success of that economy.The new feature, called Attack Shield, is a premium offering intended to complement the companys Protection Control Center security service, which EarthLink subscribers receive free. Attack Shield will cost EarthLink subscribers $24 annually, or $3 a month. Those who are not members, but who pay $36 annually or $4 monthly for the Protection Control Center service, will receive Attack Shield at no added cost.Attack Shield relies on technology from Sana Security, a software vendor based in San Mateo, Calif.,
that specializes in what is known as behavior-based intrusion detection methods. Such programs essentially watch a personal computer for suspicious-looking software
hidden in remote areas of the computer that then replicate themselves, or programs that load themselves onto a PC unbidden.
Antivirus software companies like McAfee, Symantec and others, using conventional Internet security methods, find a copy of such a malicious program, identify a signature string of computer code unique to it, then circulate to customers a software application to block programs with that signature.The signature-based approach, though, does little for those who are victimized by a new attack before security companies have had a chance to obtain the programs signature and circulate an antidote. And because many hackers now are sophisticated financial criminals, rather than the rascals
of old, their programs are more likely to mutate so quickly that the signature they leave on one persons computer could look nothing like the signature left on someone elses machine.These new malware programs, as they are known in the computer security field, are the most popular distribution method for programs that have turned an estimated 11 percent of the worlds computers into zombie machines used in fraud, spam distribution and online identity theft.By opening a new front in cyber crime, hackers have also opened a new market for security companies. This month, Symantec announced a
behavior-based detection technology, called Sonar, to thwart malware intrusions, and analysts said other
companies were working hard to introduce competing technology or refine what they already have.EarthLink has offered Attack Shield on a trial basis since early in the month, according to Mr. Forman, who declined to say how many customers the service had.Most of the users are EarthLink customers, but were very happy with its progress among those who arent EarthLink customers, he said. This is part of our strategy to widen out the potential universe of folks who EarthLink can reach. And security is a huge part of why our existing members are loyal to EarthLink.He said the security service was also an important way for EarthLink to increase revenue as it tries to persuade Attack Shield users to become full EarthLink subscribers. The company lost $3.2 million in the third quarter of 2006, the latest quarter for which EarthLink has reported financial results. Revenue increased 4.5 percent over the 2005 quarter, to $331.3 million.EarthLink, like AOL,
has struggled to grow amid heavy competition from cable Internet providers and phone companies. It has had to glean revenue from its 5.3 million existing customers by selling them more services like Internet telephony and online video subscriptions.
Such efforts have paid dividends, Mr. Forman said, as well as the companys emphasis on selling security services. Security is very much a moneymaker for us, he said.According to Andrew Jacquith, an analyst with the Yankee Group, a technology consulting firm based in Boston, the Attack Shield effort is likely to appeal to a small percentage of the market at first, even though he said it was a step ahead of other security services in effectiveness and simplicity.A certain amount of education needs to happen before customers figure out that this is what theyll want to have, Mr. Jacquith said. So having companies like EarthLink behind it will help a lot. He added that other Internet providers would offer similar services to their customers in the coming months, accelerating the process.The consumer market for security software, which the research firm IDC said reached $1.6 billion last year, has increasingly moved online in recent years, as vendors like McAfee and CA align themselves with Internet service providers to gain market share.Selling software to consumers online is much more efficient than selling through retail stores. But analysts have criticized security vendors for distributing their software through Internet providers. As good as such deals are for gaining new customers, they yield far less revenue for each subscriber
 compared with the $30 they can make by selling through a retailer.Sana has no such concerns, because it has traditionally sold to businesses, not consumers. Sanas revenue was under $20 million last year, according to Timothy Eades, its senior vice president for marketing, though last years sales were five times
2005.Symantec, one of the biggest security software vendors, also distributes its software through Internet providers, but Erin Hintz, the vice president for
worldwide consumer marketing, said the company had been careful not to give its products away too cheaply.Weve been pretty good about striking partnerships where its beneficial for both parties, while some of our competitors havent, Ms. Hintz said. Over all, though, consumers have absolutely shifted more and more online as their preferred buying channel, she said, as banks and other financial services companies joined Internet providers in selling security software to their customers.
Try as they may, such efforts will do little to attract the nearly one-third of consumers who, according to Forrester Research, are still leery of buying anything online.Thats why people will often purchase for the first time in a retail store, Ms. Hintz said. Then when they renew their subscription, theyre more comfortable doing the transaction online.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: Harnessing the Web To Sell Online Security.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
