As More Documents Appear, Sony Seeks to Calm Nervous Employees - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Media|As More Documents Appear, Sony Seeks to Calm Nervous Employees
As More Documents Appear, Sony Seeks to Calm Nervous Employees
LOS ANGELES  As hackers made public more Sony Pictures Entertainment documents on Monday, Sony sought to calm its jittery employees, announcing in an internal memo that the F.B.I. would visit its Culver City, Calif., lot on Wednesday for security briefings.In a companywide email sent on Monday afternoon, Michael Lynton, the studios chief executive, told staff members that the F.B.I. had dedicated senior staff to the global hacking investigation, which has been described by cybersecurity experts as unprecedented and highly sophisticated. Sony employees over the past week have seen their Social Security numbers, performance reviews, salaries, home addresses and passwords shared with the world.In addition to the F.B.I. visit on Wednesday, Mr. Lynton announced an all-hands gathering on Friday to brief employees on the latest information regarding the attack.Earlier on Monday, a note appeared online that for the first time appeared to link the leaking of thousands of documents over the last week to the coming Sony comedy The Interview, about a bumbling assassination attempt on North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un.Stop immediately showing the movie of terrorism, the note said in part, although it did not specifically identify The Interview as that movie. The posting was apparently made by Guardians of Peace, a hacker group that has claimed responsibility for the attack.
Investigators are pursuing a theory that Sonys attackers may have had help from at least one Sony employee, according to security experts who have studied samples of the malware found on Sonys systems but are bound by agreements not to speak publicly about it. Embedded into the malware were the names of several internal Sony servers, and credentials for its employees, according to the security experts.Evidence suggests the attackers routed their attack through infected computers in Thailand, Italy, Singapore, Poland, Bolivia and Cyprus, but the code was written on computers that used the Korean language settings by default. The attacks also bear remarkable similarity to a series of destructive attacks last year on banks and broadcasters in South Korea.North Korea has denied involvement in the Sony attacks, but released a statement Sunday acknowledging that the attack might be a righteous deed of hackers sympathetic with North Korea. Continue reading the main story
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
