At the S.E.C., Questions About Its Own Privacy Controls - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|It Guards the Markets, but What About Itself?
THE Securities and Exchange Commission oversees the nations financial markets. But has it unwittingly compromised its own employees financial information?Two years ago, the S.E.C. began monitoring its employees investments more closely to allay public concern about possible conflicts of interest. Until then, its ethics office had encouraged employees to police themselves by checking a limited database of prohibited transactions.The new system required employees to use a more comprehensive database, the Ethics Program System, to clear their securities transactions in advance and to record details about their financial holdings. To manage E.P.S., the agency hired Financial Tracking Technologies of Riverside, Conn., which provides similar services for money managers and large public companies.At the time, the S.E.C. assured its employees that their brokerage account numbers and other financial data would be safe. The S.E.C.s security personnel, the agency said, would test and audit the system. Besides, only a small number of employees at the contractor would have access to E.P.S., and those employees would undergo rigorous background checks, according to an e-mail sent to S.E.C. employees in the fall of 2009.Alas, like Facebook, the agency may have overestimated its privacy controls.Just over a week ago, the agency sent an e-mail warning employees that F.T.T. had granted access to the system to a subcontractor and a consultant without the S.E.C.s authorization. Employees personal information, the S.E.C. added, might have been exposed for as long as the system had been operating. The agency suggested that employees check their brokerage statements to make sure no one else had traded under their names, and offered them free credit monitoring for a year.
Although the subcontractor and consultant had access to E.P.S. data, which includes personal information, administrators wrote in the e-mail, we are not aware of any actual misuse of the data.Financial Tracking Technologies said that no one had misused the data, even as it denied that it had allowed unauthorized access in the first place. In its formal proposal for the S.E.C. contract, as well as in subsequent documents, F.T.T. said it routinely worked with a third-party software developer, according to a company press release. Indeed, the companys privacy policy, posted on its Web site, advises clients that subcontractors may have access to your personal information as necessary to perform their functions.The agency employs nearly 4,000 people, and all must submit financial disclosure reports. As federal employees, some senior managers, for example, must list assets like stocks, bonds, annuities, retirement funds and real estate investments, for themselves and their spouses and dependent children.But the S.E.C.s warning to its employees is enough to give pause to anybody  federal employee or not  who submits sensitive information to the government, privacy experts say.
This incident raises fundamental questions about the practices of the S.E.C. and the protection of personal information that it collects, says Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a research center in Washington. If the S.E.C. loses control of the information that people use to make trades, then those people are vulnerable because of the agencys poor security practices.The incident, he says, raises questions about how much information government agencies need to keep  and how long they need to keep it  to perform their functions. It also raises questions about whether federal agencies are equipped to keep tabs on outside contractors that manage government data systems.Indeed, the incident exposes major security gaps in federal data protection.The S.E.C. initially chose to hire F.T.T. after the company represented to the S.E.C. that its core business expertise, capacity and experience were sufficient to handle the S.E.C.s requirements without the need to partner or subcontract any required elements of the work, John Nester, the director of the agencys office of public affairs, said last week. The contract, he said, required the company to obtain agency approval of all subcontractors on the project and to provide copies of any subcontracts.But a former F.T.T. employee recently contacted the S.E.C. with security concerns, according to the agencys e-mail to employees. The agency investigated and concluded that F.T.T. had not obtained the required approval for a subcontractor.
Although the S.E.C. regularly performed audits, Mr. Nester said, they were specific assessments  required by the Federal Information Security Management Act  to ensure that the system was not vulnerable to hacking. Those tests, he said, do not check for willful disclosure of sensitive data by agency contractors.W. Anthony Turner, the managing principal of Financial Tracking Technologies, disagreed. He said last week that the company had told the agency that it worked with a third-party company to develop software for its databases; the software developer, he added, did not have access to sensitive information in the S.E.C. database. The real issue ought to be: Was there a data breach, or not? he said. There wasnt, and there never has been at F.T.T.STILL, news of the systems potential vulnerabilities has left many S.E.C. employees wondering why the agency outsourced ethics compliance in the first place, said Greg Gilman, chapter president of the National Treasury Employees Union; it represents about 2,700 nonmanagement S.E.C. employees.This is particularly disturbing since the S.E.C. apparently had no mechanism to ensure that the outside contractor was maintaining the appropriate level of privacy and security in handling this private data, he said in an e-mail last week.In an ideal world, the S.E.C. compliance system would obviate Congressional investigations like the ones earlier this year, in which the agency was asked to explain why it had allowed its general counsel to work on formulas to compensate clients of Bernard L. Madoff, even though that official (who has since left the agency) had inherited money in 2004 from a Madoff account.But how well can an ethics compliance system work if employees dont trust it to safeguard their personal information?The S.E.C. is currently reviewing E.P.S., which was suspended last month. The agencys Office of Inspector General did not respond to queries last week about whether it was investigating.
A version of this article appears in print on October 23, 2011, on page BU5 of the New York edition with the headline: It Guards The Markets, But What About Itself?.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
