NEWS WATCH: SECURITY; It Knows All Your Passwords (But Promises Not to Tell) - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Technology|NEWS WATCH: SECURITY; It Knows All Your Passwords (But Promises Not to Tell)
NEWS WATCH: SECURITY; It Knows All Your Passwords (But Promises Not to Tell)
Passwords that are nonintuitive enough to keep private information private can be a bother if you routinely visit secure Web sites (for shopping online, say) or if you use computers that are accessible to others. Passwords should be both irregular and complex, but irregular, complex combinations of letters and numbers are hard to remember.Password-management software can make it easier to control a portfolio of access codes. The latest version of AI RoboForm stores your passwords in a single file (password-protected, of course), and then offers to plug them in whenever they are needed.A basic version of RoboForm is available as a free download from www.roboform.com. You create an identity by entering your name, contact parameters, birthdate and so on, along with credit card and bank account numbers if you want. RoboForm then draws on the information (either automatically or after asking) to fill in forms you encounter in your Internet travels, saving the filled-in forms on what it calls passcards.RoboForm can be extensively customized and can be used in any of 20 languages including Finnish, Chinese, Korean and Hungarian. (An advanced version of the program, with an unlimited number of identities and more extensive customization options, is $30.)Best of all, the tiny program and its associated data file occupy little memory space, so they can easily be stored on a portable flash drive. That means that no matter what computer you use, you can get at your passwords and passcards by simply plugging the flash drive into a U.S.B. port, and then take them with you -- without a trace -- by unplugging it.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
