Qihoo 360 Technology to Be Taken Private in $9.3 Billion Deal - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
DealBook|Qihoo 360 Technology to Be Taken Private in $9.3 Billion Deal
Qihoo 360 Technology to Be Taken Private in $9.3 Billion Deal
An advertisement for Qihoo 360 Technology Company, a Chinese Internet security firm.
HONG KONG  The Qihoo 360 Technology Company, a Chinese Internet security firm, said on Friday that it had agreed to be taken private and bought by a consortium of investors for about $9.3 billion.The deal represents a premium of 16.6 percent to the closing price of the companys American depositary shares on June 16, the day before it proposed going private. It also represents a premium of 32.7 percent to the average closing price of the companys depositary shares in the 30 days before the proposal.Each class A and class B share in China will be exchanged for $1.33 in cash, and each American depositary share will be exchanged for $77. Depositary shares allow investors outside China to own a stake in Chinese businesses more easily.The investors include the Citic Guoan Group, Golden Brick Silk Road Capital, Sequoia Capital China, Taikang Life Insurance, the Ping An Insurance Group, Sunshine Insurance, New China Capital, Huatai Ruilian, and Huasheng Capital.The consortium plans to pay for the transaction with cash contributions from investors, a committed term loan of up to $3 billion and a bridge loan of $400 million.
The Qihoo 360 board of directors has already approved the transaction, and it is expected to close in the first half of 2016.The company was advised by JPMorgan Securities; Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom; Maples and Calder; Jun He Law Offices; and Latham & Watkins.The consortium of investors was advised by Huatai United Securities, Kirkland & Ellis, Fangda Partners and Conyers Dill & Pearman. Continue reading the main story
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
