loud computing and GIS platforms are a match made in heaven for the modern
enterprise. Perhaps even a better match than your favorite cloud based CRM,
HR/Finance system, or social media platform. Why? because even Facebook started
small and grew, one college campus at a time. But for a global corporation, the
fundamental data set covers most of the Earth, which occupies an area of 197
million square miles! Today’s maps contain the vastness of our environment,
resources, property, and populations. We have maps of all types with enough
precision to support navigation systems. Satellite images are taken from miles
up to achieve resolutions of a few dozen centimeters. Birdseye views are taken
by circling planes to give us pictures from several perspectives. Planes and
drones take lidar images using lasers to create high precision 3Dmodels of
buildings and objects. Maps track mountain tops and ocean depths, rural areas,
and cities. We track properties, points of interest, the locations of phone
towers, their signal coverage, and the wires, and gas pipes under our streets.
And all of these have metadata to track how things are used, owned, proposed,
and what they’re contained within. Containership leads to databases’s of virtual
boundaries for continents, countries, regions, states, counties, zip codes, and
parcels. There are databases containing the location of every significant point
on the planet and algorithms to interpolate between them togeocode andadd new
locations. Andamazingly much of this information is changing all of the time! On
top of this, with the advent of IoT, we’re poised to generate more data than has
ever been seen before as devices provide constant streams of data about where
they are and what they’re doing at any given moment. The cloud offers ways to
store and analyze this vast amount of data and we have access to it from the
devices in our lives and the apps we use throughout our enterprises. But it
wasn’t always so. In the early days of GIS technology, the tools were relatively
niche and required skills akin to specialized engineering disciplines. Not
surprisingly folks with such skills often learned them in the military or the
federal government. The military applications for GIS are obvious and one can
imagine the amount of work required to manage the country’s various resources.
At that time, GIS software was expensive, proprietary, and had limited
scalability. Mapping applications were fat client tools which required large
file shares of data and images-something very difficult to extend across a WAN
for example, which often caused mapping departments to be fairly centralized.
Adding GIS features to an order processing system to embed a map or to geocode
an address was often difficult and required complex low level code. The software
itself was only part of the problem. The bigger complexity was data. Not just
the amount but the logistics of coordinating disparate sources: Local and
federal governments, 3rd party, in house -often overlapping, inconsistently
tagged, and released at varying schedules. Mapping vendors bundled datasets to
hide much of this but their data often required being supplemented with
additional data–such as higher quality images. Coordinating the data sources was
critical for any application so there was a huge need for careful release
management, often requiring an entire team. Fast forwarding to today’s cloud
apps, the accessibility problems of GIS technology is solved by web tools, thin
client apps, and centralized systems that can be configured once and shared by
many. The challenge of consolidating data still exists but the cloud vendors
hide this from us. Pan along Google or Bing maps and you see the faint logos of
various data providers in the corner along with version information. And on top
of that it’s all changing all the time. The land under our feet seems stable
enough but the data about it is far from fixed and is constantly being improved.
Cloud beautifully solves problems of immense data sets requiring massive storage
and infrastructure, data distribution problems, high velocity updates, and setup
costs. And when you consolidate data for one customer, you can leverage it for
many customers while economies of scale make it cost effective to provide the
best data possible. There will always be premium data, but thanks to cloud the
benefits are entirely on the side of the consumer. Yesterday’s premium data is
practically free. Today’s premium data, such as 3D virtual building models, will
be cheaper tomorrow. What started for Microsoft and Google as a way to add
location based servicesto their search productswas considered fairly limited
compared to the more mature features of ESRI.But Microsoft and Google gradually
started to address this–as did the aftermarket and open source community.But
vendors like ESRIwere watching and started to adjust their offerings to be
complimentary rather than competitive with Google and Microsoft. One could
access Bing or Google’s webservices in MapInfo or ESRI’s desktop tools and no
longer need a massive trove of images stored on the network.  But not stopping
there, ESRI adapted their server tools to be cloud friendly. So one could
provision a full ArcGIS Server instance on the cloud provider or your choice and
leverage immense data sets, choose additional premium data, setup gateways to
your own data, and still use the high end desktop tools in a subscription model.
So all in all, this is the absolute best and most exciting time for companies to
adopt advanced GIS tools and move beyond the basics of out of the box Google and
Bing. Like other Cloud tools, you can start small and grow to any size. And
technologies like IoT will create datasets, the likes of which we’ve never even
seen that could only be wrangled using cloud tools like Hadoop. We’re certainly
seeing huge growth in several areas: the high end premium mapping tools are
easier to get into the hands of end users thanks to subscription models. And
premium tools are adding new features and data enabling our users to create
sophisticated interactive visualizations and analytics. With the use of web apps
and subscription models, these sophisticated data aggregation and presentation
tools no longer require a heavy load on our desktop hardware. This also gives
our revenue producers the flexibility to use and present with the device of
their choice, which is key to keeping our sales professionals from outselling.
Due to the proliferation of easy to use web services, it’s never been easier to
embed maps and spatial functions to LOB applications–even legacy ones. For brand
new apps, we’re often adding mapping front and center to the interfaces, where
everything is oriented around location. We’re also seeing amazing integrations
of GIS features in our various 3rd party apps. However the most significant area
of growth we’re seeing, thanks to both cloud BI and GIS tools, is the growth of
end user self-service solutions. This is aided by many of the younger members of
our workforce coming in comfortable with the tools to create mashups and data
integrations on their own. We’re at a tipping point for a next generation GIS
technology, where users will have access to so much location based data, and
analytical tools that can handle it, the insights possible will provide
significant advantages to those who’ve made the investment.
