China Stanches Flow of Money Out of the Country, Data Suggests - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
DealBook|China Stanches Flow of Money Out of the Country, Data Suggests
China Stanches Flow of Money Out of the Country, Data Suggests
Chinas central bank in Beijing. Doubts still remain about the countrys ability to rev up slowing growth and patch up its frayed financial system.
HONG KONG  China rattled markets around the world last year when vast sums of money began flowing out of the country. Estimated at nearly $1 trillion, the money flows represented growing skepticism that China would be able to fix its deep problems and resume its place as a driver of global economic growth.Doubts remain about Beijings ability to rev up slowing growth and patch up its frayed financial system. But new data suggests China has stanched, at least for now, the flow of money that had been pouring out of the country.
As the economy stumbles, individuals and companies are pulling money out of China en masse, leaving the government scrambling to limit the outflows.
Chinese officials said on Thursday that the countrys hoard of foreign exchange reserves grew in March for the first time in five months. Those reserves  a $3.21 trillion pot of American dollars, euros, pounds and other currencies that China has accumulated over years of managing the value of its currency  are a rough proxy for money moving in and out of the country.The growth signals a reversal from the winter, when worries about Chinas growth and investor bets that the Chinese currency would weaken spurred outflows of money, contributing to sell-offs in markets around the world.The shift now stems mainly from weakness in the dollar, but also from Chinas increasingly aggressive efforts to keep its people from sending money out of the country. Stability in the reserves and even a slight increase in the value of Chinas currency, the renminbi, against the dollar also indicate a shift in strategy, economists and bankers say, as Chinese officials have more forcefully spoken out about shoring up their countrys currency and have taken efforts to help economic growth.
What remains unclear is whether China will again start hemorrhaging money to the rest of the world if global financial markets deteriorate once more or if skepticism over the Chinese economy intensifies.Worries that the renminbi would decline further against the dollar eased in March as the dollar itself weakened against practically every currency, including the renminbi.As expectations of a short-term decline in the renminbi faded, Chinese investors mostly stopped rushing to move money out of the country. The Peoples Bank of China, the central bank, said on Thursday that the countrys foreign exchange reserves had climbed $10.3 billion during March.The reserves had declined $28.6 billion in February, $99.5 billion in January and $107.9 billion in December, an outflow that was fed by a gradual devaluation of the renminbi from mid-December through early January. Investors were moving their money out of China then for fear that it would otherwise have less buying power in dollars.The capital outflow is very much linked to renminbi depreciation expectations, Shen Jianguang, a China economist at Mizuho Securities, said.But the dollar weakened broadly in March as the Federal Reserve signaled that it had little appetite for interest rate increases this year. That made it less attractive for investors to shift their money to the United States. Confidence in China and emerging markets improved.Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of Chinas central bank, and other Chinese policy makers helped stabilize the countrys reserves by making a series of public statements at the end of February saying that they saw no need for a further fall in the renminbi. They also hinted that China could do more to support flagging economic growth, although at the expense of adding to the countrys huge overhang of corporate debt.As net outflows of money slowed in March, the total value of the reserves in dollars rose slightly, to $3.21 trillion. That appeared to be because part of the reserves are held in euro-denominated and yen-denominated bonds, and the euro and yen strengthened against the dollar last month.
Without currency valuation effects, the reserves would have fallen $20 billion to $30 billion  still less than in previous months without the valuation effect, economists estimated.Many economists and traders say they believe that China will try to prevent a broad fall in the renminbi through early autumn. A weaker renminbi risks making Chinas currency an election-year issue in the United States. The renminbi is also set on Oct. 1 to join a basket of currencies determined by the International Monetary Fund, a move Beijing is unlikely to imperil.President Obama and other world leaders are scheduled to gather in early September in Hangzhou, China, for the annual Group of 20 summit meeting.Very few people think there will be a significant devaluation before the G-20, said Michael Levi, a China specialist at the Council on Foreign Relations. Theyve staked a lot of prestige on the G-20, and I dont think they want it to be a fight over currency.One way China has stabilized the currency in the past couple of months has been to place large bets in currency markets that the renminbi will stay close to its current exchange rate. Those bets have largely offset big bets by hedge funds that China will allow the renminbi to decline further.
Chinas economy is faltering, prompting concerns that are now shaking global stock markets.
After months of pressure from the International Monetary Fund, Chinas central bank disclosed that the traded value of its contracts betting on the continued strength of the renminbi was $28.9 billion. By contrast, China had only $2.44 billion worth of contracts effectively betting on renminbi weakness.The twin questions still facing China involve whether anything could happen before the United States presidential elections in early November to destabilize the renminbi, and whether the overall Chinese economy will be strong enough by then for Chinese households and companies to want to keep their money at home.If the dollar stops weakening in global currency markets before November and starts strengthening again, that would once more make the dollar more attractive to hold than the renminbi. And if Chinas banking system encounters a sharp rise in defaults on its huge loans to troubled state-owned enterprises, that would also hurt the renminbi.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: China Appears to Stem Tide of Cash Leaving Country.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
As Chinas Economic Picture Turns Uglier, Beijing Applies Airbrush
Chinas Foreign Exchange Reserves Dwindling Rapidly
China to Track Renminbi Based on Basket of Currencies
As Chinas Economic Picture Turns Uglier, Beijing Applies Airbrush
Chinas Foreign Exchange Reserves Dwindling Rapidly
China to Track Renminbi Based on Basket of Currencies
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
