Immigrants for Donald Trump? Some in New York Show Their Support - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
N.Y. / Region|Immigrants for Donald Trump? Some in New York Show Their Support
Immigrants for Donald Trump? Some in New York Show Their Support
From left, A.D. Amar, Anand Ahuja and Davendra Makkar, the founders of Indian-Americans for Trump 2016, in the atrium of Trump Tower in Manhattan last month.
Along the campaign trail, Donald J. Trump likes to pick out the people who, despite his having insulted their ethnic group, support him in the race for the Republican presidential nomination. They love him, they really do.And with Mr. Trump leading in the polls for New Yorks presidential primary on April 19, some small groups of immigrants have come forward to support him. Never mind that he has said Mexicans are rapists and drug dealers, suggested a temporary ban on Muslims entering the United States and called for the deportation of the more than 11 million undocumented immigrants in the country.These immigrants are supporting him for reasons that are intensely personal and, not surprisingly, are often aligned with their politics back home.A recent informal poll conducted by a Russian-language radio station in New York City showed that more than 80 percent of 5,000 callers preferred Mr. Trump, the Republican front-runner, to Hillary Clinton, the Democratic Partys likely nominee. A group of Latino Republicans in Rockland County is planning to endorse him, and some older Indian-American professionals and young Hindus in the region already have. Continue reading the main story
Consider the case of Anand Ahuja, a lawyer in his mid-60s on Long Island, who was a founder of
Indian-Americans for Trump 2016, a political action committee that oddly does not raise money. Mr. Ahuja visited the United States in his 20s on a tourist visa from India, and said friends were marrying for green cards. They stayed and prospered, but he returned to India and waited nine years to immigrate legally.
Mr. Ahuja praised Mr. Trump for wanting to stop immigrants from entering the country illegally. You should not reward people who have broken the law, he said. You follow the law, you get punished. Thats why I like Donald Trump when he says, Lets build a wall.He added, I believe anybody who came in this country illegally should be deported.Or as Tony Mele, 55, the chairman of the Latino National Republican Coalition of Rockland County and a private security consultant, put it: When youre in New York and youre standing on the long line for tickets to a show, or in the supermarket, what happens when one person jumps the line with a cart? Its like, Oh no youre not! I dont care if its Mexico, Ecuador, what island you came from.Mr. Mele, who was born in the South Bronx, added, You got a guy like Trump saying, Hey, get to the back of the line like everybody else.Rene, 38, a business owner in Spring Valley, N.Y., and a member of the Rockland County coalition, came to the United States illegally as a teenager from Ecuador 22 years ago. His employer offered him a work authorization. Eventually, he applied for legal permanent residency and became a citizen in 2006. He did not want to give his surname for fear of retribution against his school-age children or his businesses.Rene supports Mr. Trump because he believes the Democrats have not helped immigrants like himself. He said he was fed up with the corruption and resulting lack of resources in the East Ramapo Central School District. Its school board, dominated by ultra-Orthodox Jews, is facing lawsuits, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation is investigating the possible misuse of federal money in local yeshivas.Our community is tired of dealing with the same things going on over and over again, Rene said. The only way to make our voice count is to start looking for our way to get in.
Tony Mele, the chairman of the Latino National Republican Coalition of Rockland County, a group that is planning to endorse Donald J. Trump.
No one else in the Latino coalition would comment publicly. Like Rene, they are afraid of a backlash, something other immigrant supporters of Mr. Trump have faced.You become a subject of mockery and fun and criticism, Mr. Ahuja said. Initially people were calling us very bad names on my Facebook. They wrote, Shame on you being an Indian, you are a Donald Trump supporter.
Devesh Kapur, director of the Center for the Advanced Study of India at the University of Pennsylvania, said Mr. Ahujas group was an outlier in an Indian diaspora that had overwhelmingly voted for Democrats. In the 2008 presidential race, 84 percent of Indian-American voters chose Barack Obama, according to a Pew Research Center survey.It has no reflection of representativeness by a long, long shot, said Mr. Kapur, who is an author of a coming book about Indian immigrants success in the United States. Whether its Sikhs for Trump, Hindus for Trump, in each of them you would say: Really? How can that be? Its a really tiny fraction. They represent themselves, not all Sikhs.In contrast, in Brooklyn and on Staten Island, Russian immigrants  especially older ones  have voted Republican because they see the Democratic Party as aligned with the old Soviet Union, said Gregory Davidzon, a radio station owner in Brooklyn and political kingmaker. His station conducted the daylong poll last week; he said he was not endorsing any candidate, merely explaining the phenomenon.They are for the Republican Party against their own history, against the Soviet Union, this is what my feeling is, Mr. Davidzon said. Its nothing personal with Trump.Isaak Shikhman, 70, a Republican on Staten Island who came as a Jewish refugee from the Soviet Union in 1989 and became a citizen in 1995, said he supported Mr. Trump for his ability to deal strongly with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and for his views on immigration. We came to this country legally, he said. Its very important if Mexican people do the same.He laughed when asked about Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a Democratic socialist who is running against Mrs. Clinton.My life for 43 years was in a Communist country, Mr. Shikhman said. I dont want that back.Adity Sharma, 30, a law student, and one of about 20 members of Hindus for Trump, a Facebook group that occasionally meets in cafes in Brooklyn, said her Indian-American family supported Mrs. Clinton. To each his own, she said, adding of Mr. Trump: Hes a strong candidate, hes different than the others. By him not being so politically correct, it does make people sit up and listen.
She and the groups other members believe that current American policy is too friendly toward Pakistan and that Mr. Trump could change that to benefit India. They also approve of Mr. Trumps proposed ban on Muslim refugees.Raju Bathija, 56, another member of the group, said she no longer trusted Mrs. Clinton or her foreign policy in India. But more than 15 years ago she said she attended a fund-raiser for Mrs. Clintons Senate race, as a member of the Indo-American Democratic Party. It was in a Fifth Avenue apartment that she said Mr. Trump had donated for the occasion.Now she and Mr. Trump are both opposing Mrs. Clinton. How to explain that?You go where your bread is buttered, Ms. Bathija said.
An earlier version of this article misstated the year that Isaak Shikhman came to the United States from the Soviet Union. It was in 1989, not 1995, which was when he became a citizen.
An earlier version of this article misstated the focus of an F.B.I. inquiry. The F.B.I. is investigating local religious schools, not the school district.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Immigrants for Trump? In New York, Its Personal.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
The latest news and analysis of the candidates and issues shaping the presidential race.
Black Voters on Donald Trump: Weve Heard It All Before
We Need to Clean This Up: Clinton Aides Newly Public Email Shows Concern
Seizing on Rising Costs, Trump Says Health Law Is Over
What Drives Donald Trump? Fear of Losing Status, Tapes Show
Hillary Clintons MetroCard Adventure: Swipe. Wince. Repeat.
Donald Trump, Despite Bashing Beijing, Is Not Without Fans in China
Trumps Softened Stance on Visas Alarms Some Immigration Critics
More Latinos Seek Citizenship to Vote Against Trump
Hillary Clintons MetroCard Adventure: Swipe. Wince. Repeat.
Donald Trump, Despite Bashing Beijing, Is Not Without Fans in China
Trumps Softened Stance on Visas Alarms Some Immigration Critics
More Latinos Seek Citizenship to Vote Against Trump
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
