Blaming Policy, Not Islam, for Belgiums Radicalized Youth - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Europe|Blaming Policy, Not Islam, for Belgiums Radicalized Youth
Blaming Policy, Not Islam, for Belgiums Radicalized Youth
The Schaerbeek neighborhood in Brussels. Salah Abdeslam, the Islamic State recruit who participated in the Paris terror attacks, sought refuge in the neighborhood for weeks.
BRUSSELS  Yves Goldstein makes no excuses for Belgiums failure to find Salah Abdeslam and the other Islamic State recruits who attacked Paris and then bombed
Brussels Airport and a subway station.The problem is not Islam, he insists, but the negligence of government officials like himself in allowing self-contained ethnic ghettos to grow unchallenged, breeding anger, crime and radicalism among youth  a soup of grievances that suits Islamist recruiters.Our cities are facing a huge problem, maybe the largest since World War II, Mr. Goldstein said. How is it that people who were born here in Brussels, in Paris, can call heroes the people who commit violence and terror? That is the real question were facing.Friends who teach the equivalent of high school seniors in the predominantly Muslim districts of Molenbeek and Schaerbeek told him that 90 percent of their students, 17, 18 years old, called them heroes, he said.Mr. Goldstein, 38, grew up in Schaerbeek, the child of Jewish refugees from Nazism. Now a councilman from Schaerbeek, he is also chief of staff for the minister-president of the Brussels Capital Region.
The Federal Police released additional footage on Thursday of the man believed to be the third attacker at Brussels Airport, often referred to as the man in the hat.
Photo by Olivier Hoslet/European Pressphoto Agency.
Schaerbeek is almost as infamous these days as Molenbeek, two districts where Mr. Abdeslam and his group of Islamic State adherents had the space and time to live, hide and manufacture their weapons.Adjacent to Molenbeek, Schaerbeek is richer, tidier and more mixed. Jacques Brel lived here for a time, so did Ren Magritte. It has a young, affluent section, which some compare to Notting Hill in London, and a large Turkish population.
The townhouse where preparations were made for the Paris attacks and where Mr. Abdeslam sought refuge for weeks is in the Turkish area, which is more well-to-do, and a better place to hide.Brussels itself is about 25 percent Muslim  70 percent are of Moroccan heritage and 20 percent Turkish, and the ethnic groups tend to stick to themselves, making them difficult for outsiders, like the police, to penetrate.Belgiums integration has been somewhere between the French model, which put new immigrants in suburban ghettos, and the British and American one, which created communities like Chinatown or Little Italy, Mr. Goldstein said. In Brussels, everyone lives in the city, and we chose a model of diversity through mixing of populations in the same neighborhoods.But we failed, he said. We failed in Molenbeek and Schaerbeek, too, to ensure the mixing of populations.
Todays Headlines: European Morning Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the European morning.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
We have neighborhoods where people only see the same people, go to school with the same people, he said. What connection do they have with the whole society, what connection do they have with real diversity? Its the establishment of the ghetto, he said, and its the thing in our urban development that we have to tackle.Jews have left Schaerbeek, and the last two synagogues are being sold. Instead, there is a kind of suffocating, insular, ethnic uniformity. These young people will never go to museums until 18 or 20  they never saw Chagall, they never saw Dal, they never saw Warhol, they dont know what it is to dream, Mr. Goldstein said.Of course there is poverty and unemployment, he said. But we dont give these young people the keys to think differently, to think outside the little box, the little neighborhood where they live  this ideological box, this closed-eyes box.As for the terrorists, religion for them is a pretext, he said. They believe in nothing. But Islam is the way they find to express, to crystallize their radicalization.Young people whose parents or grandparents were immigrants face serious questions of identity, Mr. Goldstein acknowledged, speaking during and after a conference here of the German Marshall Fund. But identity is a two-sided relation  between young Muslims and ourselves.
We have to fight racism and discrimination with the same force as radicalization, he said, because our society gives to these young people a bad idea of who and what they are.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Finding Fault in Belgium With Policy, Not Islam.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
2 Brussels Police Officers Are Stabbed in Potential Terrorist Attack
Belgiums Interior Minister Visits New York Police to Discuss Terror Threats
In Brussels, Art Museum Brings Hope to Muslim Neighborhood of Molenbeek
2 Charged With Aiding Brussels Attacks Suspect Appear in London Court
Radicalization of a Promising Student Turned Bomb Maker in Brussels
Belgian Police Release New Video of Brussels Airport Suspect
Rattled by Attacks, Many Belgians Still Want Nation Split in Two
In Brussels Bombing Plot, a Trail of Dots Not Connected
Radicalization of a Promising Student Turned Bomb Maker in Brussels
Belgian Police Release New Video of Brussels Airport Suspect
Rattled by Attacks, Many Belgians Still Want Nation Split in Two
In Brussels Bombing Plot, a Trail of Dots Not Connected
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
