NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
I have been trying to make my home a happier place the way the Japanese organizing guru Marie Kondo suggests, thanking possessions that no longer spark joy for their service and throwing them out, and it is making me a nervous wreck.The blowback from the socks has been particularly upsetting.What do you mean you want joy from us? a pair of stretched-out white gym socks said. Were comfortable, were thick, we cushion your feet a lot better than those stupid socks with the pink flamingos. So what if our tops are a little slack? You look at your upper arms lately?Are you familiar with Ms. Kondos book The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up? She argues that you should throw out anything in your home  books, gifts, yoga mats, clothing  that does not send a charge of delight through your body when you pick it up. Its got a whole section on storing socks and stockings, instructing that you should never ball them up or tie them up because that puts them in a state of tension and that while they are in your drawer they are essentially on holiday and it is their only chance to rest.Over five million copies have been sold worldwide. That means that if just half the readers followed Ms. Kondos advice, two and a half million people around the world have been talking to their socks. Thank you for your service. Loved your work on the Five Boro Bike Tour last year. But Im going in a different direction now and  wait, how did you know I was in J. Crew yesterday, who told you, those damn Wacoal briefs? Listen, nothing happened. Yet. Now, I am not one of those people who cannot throw things out. Im an apartment-dwelling, limited-space New Yorker. I toss a pair of high heels down the garbage chute, Ive gained 200 cubic inches of closet space. I love throwing things down the chute, especially after a breakup.I feel sorry for people who do not live in apartment buildings and cannot terminate relationships with the finality of the chute, who never get to experience the whole satisfying slam thunk of the metal door and the drop: Hot-air balloon instruction manual. SLAM, THUNK! Collapsible fishing rod. SLAM, THUNK! Silver tray from San Miguel de Allende. THUNK, CLANK, THUNK! all the glorious 14 floors down.Ive been to garbage dumps upstate, and its not the same. Theres something public and melancholy about those plaid bathrobes and golf clubs; its the field of broken dreams spread out for the world to see. When something goes down a New York City garbage chute, it disappears from the planet. Some people think it ends up in a Staten Island landfill, but it actually goes to these Einsteinian little black holes in space. Goodbye, balloonist, I mean balloon manual, and by the way, I hated having your crew with us every time we flew  it was like dating a man with six children.Where was I?Oh, right, Marie Kondo. She also has a theory on gifts, which she says are important not as objects but as a way of conveying feelings. If you dont like a gift, there is no need to feel guilty about getting rid of it, Ms. Kondo says. Surely the person who gave it to you doesnt want you to use it out of a sense of obligation.
I dont know what kind of crowd Ms. Kondo runs with, but I can tell you that if I have given one of my friends a cookie crock I expect it to be on the kitchen counter when I visit 30 years later, and they feel the same.If you hate the cookie crock, you stick it in the closet and whip it out when your friend comes over. If you really, really hate the cookie crock, maybe you get to throw it out and say: The cleaning lady broke it. I was so upset. But you can only do that once in your lifetime, and only if you are really good at feigning sincerity, which, of course, after 40 years of being a reporter, I am.And putting every bit of your clothing on the floor, as Ms. Kondo suggests, and deciding if it sparks joy and then thanking it before throwing it out is not a great idea either. There are some things in my closets I do not want to dialogue with  things I didnt even remember owning until reading her book.For instance this flea-market kimono with big red leaves that the vendor told me had been in a Woody Allen movie about an older man and the much younger woman who throws herself at him. I am going to have to be more specific. Its the movie where a religious out-of-town mother comes to New York, becomes an artist and shacks up with two guys. Whatever Works. Patricia Clarkson played the mother. This vendor convinced me she had worn it. Now, according to Marie Kondo, I have to drag out this kimono, which I havent touched for years, and have The Talk.Thank you for your service, Kimono. What service? You never put me on.I think I once put you on my naked body after I showered but you kept flopping open. Whose fault is that? Did I pretend to have a fastener? Anyway, what I meant was you never wore me in public. Thats because youre preposterous, Id say. I wear Keds and sleep in T-shirts. I certainly admired your vivid and dramatic colors 
Oh, please. You did what you always do, you outfitted your fantasy life, then you never wore us. Like those black and cream panties with the garters you put in the discard pile. You know the ones weeping over there, next to the seamed stockings?Naturally, Id be struck to the heart.Oh, no! Id say. I had no idea you would take it this way. When I picked up those garters they didnt spark joy, they sparked sadness because theyd been in a drawer so long. But here, Kimono, let me pick you up very gently and hang you in a place of honor in the closet. Then Ill put the garters and the stockings in their own little nest. Im not going to ball up the stockings either. Im going to lay them flat, so they can relax and rejuvenate. Its spring. Maybe well all get lucky. 
I Was Misinformed is a humor column about survival in New York City. Any resemblance to persons alive or dead is your own fault. Email: misinformed@nytimes.com.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page MB2 of the New York edition with the headline: The Joy of the Garbage Chute.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
A humor column by Joyce Wadler. May be dangerous when combined with alcohol or drugs.
Packed Restaurant. Screaming Kid. Oblivious Mommy. What Now?
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
