How a Tariff on Chinese Imports Would Ripple Through American Life - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
The Upshot|How a Tariff on Chinese Imports Would Ripple Through American Life
How a Tariff on Chinese Imports Would Ripple Through American Life
A girl seemed enchanted by the Disney Princess toy line at the Toys R Us in Times Square. A tariff on China would most likely result in higher prices at many stores.
on imports from China, on the theory that this would protect American jobs and promote American business.Whats more likely, though, is that the new tariffs would set off a cascade of global economic consequences, mostly negative.Trade between China and the United States  which reached $598 billion in 2015  has generated large economic benefits for Americans. Manufacturing many goods in China, whether sneakers or smartphones, has kept their prices lower than they would be if made here. Thats been a boon to American consumers, especially those with less money.But more and more, economists are also recognizing a downside to free trade. Competition from China and other low-wage emerging economies has severely hurt some American workers. One study figures that the United States lost at least two million jobs between 1999 and 2011 because of Chinese imports. To many people, Mr. Trumps solution may seem to make sense: Restrict those imports, save jobs and support American business.But if there were a 45 percent tariff on Chinese goods, at least part of that would probably be passed onto consumers in the form of higher prices. Americans would end up buying fewer Chinese things, and fewer things from anywhere else.
Shrinking sales of Chinese products would generally hurt American businesses and workers. A product labeled Made in China is not necessarily 100 percent Chinese, since many goods are assembled in China with parts from the United States and elsewhere. Sluggish purchases of these so-called Chinese products would reduce the sales of their American components, too.For this reason and others, quite a lot of the money spent on Chinese goods actually ends up in the wallets of Americans. A study
by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco figured that 55 cents of every $1 spent by an American shopper on a Made in China product goes to the Americans selling, transporting and marketing that product. Suppressing Chinese imports would harm shopkeepers and truck drivers.In fact, making Chinese-made goods more expensive would ripple through American shopping malls. An extra $20 for, say, childrens clothing from China is $20 not spent on a new baseball glove for a child, or a birthday gift for a grandmother. A tariff on China would dent the sales of all kinds of products, even those made in the United States.It seems likely that such a tariff would burden American consumers while doing little to create jobs for them. Gary Clyde Hufbauer and Sean Lowry at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, studying the impact of a 35 percent tariff imposed on Chinese tire imports by Washington in 2009, found that American consumers had to spend an extra $1.1 billion on tires, while the tariff protected no more than 1,200 jobs. About $900,000 for every job saved, in other words.A big tariff would also harm China. Depressing its exports to the United States would deal another blow to an economy already enduring its worst slowdown in 25 years. In the longer term, increasing the cost of doing business in China would probably prompt manufacturers of basic consumer items to consider moving out of China.That process is already underway. As the Chinese economy has advanced, wages of its workers have risen. A recent survey by the Japan External Trade Organization found that a Chinese factory worker earns $424 a month  the highest salary in developing Asia. That has caused many companies producing labor-intensive goods, like clothing or electronics, to shift factories from China to other countries or to diversify their sources of supply to keep costs down.Though higher costs in China might prompt some companies to move production back to the United States, a more plausible destination would be other emerging economies with lower costs. A factory worker earns, on average, $230 a month in India, $185 in Vietnam and $100 in Bangladesh, according to the Japanese survey.Foxconn, the Taiwan-based company that assembles iPhones in China for Apple, announced last year that it would build as many as 12 new factories in India. That means your next smartphone or pair or bluejeans would more likely be made in Mumbai than in Minneapolis.
And the Chinese governments response would probably be tariffs of its own on American goods and services rather than lowering barriers for American companies doing business in China. It moved quickly to retaliate for the tariff on Chinese tires with punitive duties on American products. Because the Chinese market has become critical for many American companies  whether Apple, Starbucks or Boeing  any steps taken by the Chinese government to curtail their ability to operate in China would be bad news for them.
Mr. Trumps tariff proposal addresses a real and legitimate concern about the effect of competition from low-wage countries on American workers. But that doesnt mean its going to solve the problem  and it could create even more.
Michael Schuman is a Beijing-based journalist who writes on the global economy and is the author of the book Confucius and the World He Created. You can follow him on Twitter at @MichaelSchuman.
The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
