Michael Botticelli Is Not in Favor of Legalization - 

Magazine|Michael Botticelli Is Not in Favor of Legalization
Joshua Roberts/Getty Images, for 
As the first drug czar who is himself in recovery from alcohol addiction, do you think your approach is different from those of your predecessors? Looking back over the history of the office, it has typically been led by generals and police officers. It was really geared toward supply reduction and interdiction. We want to focus on public-health strategies.Has your experience with addiction informed your opinion on legalization and decriminalization? Ill take off my policy hat and talk about it as a person in recovery. Fundamentally, I know that my recovery is my responsibility, and I have been in recovery for 27 years. But walking down the street and smelling pot everywhere is really challenging to people in recovery. I think that there is a middle ground where you can move people away from the criminal-justice system without some of the challenges that might come along with legalization.But alcoholics can walk down the street and smell alcohol. Would you want to make alcohol illegal? No.Are you saying that there should just be more safe spaces for people who are in recovery where there arent drugs present? Well, think about what weve done with tobacco. Weve changed the availability, weve really changed the culture, and our smoking rate is at its lowest level. Unfortunately, I still smoke.People talk a lot about stigma when it comes to addiction, but I was just in New Hampshire, and youd be shocked at how many people freely offer stories about family members and co-workers addicted to opioids. I have been amazed by the parent movement that has sprung up around opioid addiction. They went to Town Hall meetings and raised their hands. They are incredibly passionate and tremendous advocates.
Botticelli has been director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy since February 2015.
3. A Common Struggle, Patrick J. Kennedy and Stephen Fried
Some people have pointed out that a reason this was effective is that it was middle-class white parents who had the resources to use the political apparatus to change the conversation. I dont think that we can deny that thats part of why this has gotten so much attention. Youre absolutely right: Many of these are well-connected and well-resourced parents. And now, because theres so much attention on this issue, we have to make sure that were implementing policies that work for everybody.People call it the heroin epidemic, but do you think thats accurate? Isnt it really an opioid epidemic? I agree with you. People hear heroin, and they become very, very, very scared. This epidemic is really being driven by prescription medication. So when we talk about heroin, I am afraid sometimes that it takes the attention off prescription-drug misuse.
The drug naloxone has been effective in preventing deaths from heroin overdoses, but some people think that it might be unwise for addicts and their acquaintances to keep around  that it enables addicts by providing a backstop. We dont do that with any other disease. Right? We dont say to someone whos obese, Were not going to revive you when you have a heart attack, because you didnt follow your diet. I think thats where stigma comes into play: We have this separate feeling for people with addiction than we do with people with any other condition.
More and more communities affected by the crisis have been coming together and agitating to reclassify drug overdoses as homicides, so they can charge dealers as murderers. What do you think of that trend? Weve done a lot with good Samaritan laws to make people feel more comfortable calling 911 in the event of an overdose. We have to be careful that we not backslide on these advances by using overdoses as part of homicide investigations.
Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of  Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page MM60 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: Michael Botticelli Doesnt Want to Legalize It.

What New Rules on Retirement Savings Mean for Investors
If Cruz Keeps This Pace, Trump Wont Get a Majority of Delegates
Model in Gucci Ad Is Deemed Unhealthily Thin by British Regulator

