BroadwayCon to Expand to Javits Center Next Year - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Theater|BroadwayCon to Expand to Javits Center Next Year
Attendees of BroadwayCon looking at Playbills in Manhattan.
BroadwayCon, the multiday gathering of theater fans that survived a record snowstorm during its first convention earlier this year, is getting bigger.Organizers said that the second BroadwayCon will take place next Jan. 27 to 29 at the Javits Convention Center, on Manhattans Far West Side. The gathering drew 5,000 people this year; organizers hope it will draw up to 15,000 next year.The convention, inspired by ComicCon and a multitude of other pop culture fan gatherings, consisted of panels, workshops, performances and presentations by theater artists and theater industry officials. It is a for-profit venture, run by a company called Mischief Management, in partnership with Playbill; details of next years plans were first reported by Playbill.The gathering this year was closely watched by theater industry leaders, who are always looking for new ways to market shows and develop audiences; many leading performers, producers and promoters spoke at the conference, and, when a snowstorm struck, multiple stars, in some cases without advance warning, addressed an impromptu convention slumber party via phone or video.The attendees were predominantly, but not exclusively, young women  similar to the demographics of other fan conferences, and significantly younger than the average Broadway ticket buyer. Nearly 80 percent of the participants were female, and about 70 percent were from outside New York state.
Melissa Anelli, one of the lead organizers of the event, said that as a result of the success of this years event, early indications suggest that industry participation would be stronger and attendance higher next year.Weve started our outreach to guests and speakers and performers, and if we thought there was interest last year, this year its blowing out of the water, she said.She said the organizers had chosen to move to the Javits from the New York Hilton Midtown because of space needs, both for performance stages and meeting rooms. Its the only place we could have grown, she said. And the conference would stick with January, despite this years weather woes, because, she said, Its still the best time for the theater industry; its still the cheapest time to get to New York; its still a really good time for shows that are opening to preview to a passionate audience.A lot will be the same  the same insightful industry panels, the same thoughtful looks behind the curtain, and well try to maintain as much silliness as humanly possible, she said. Theres such a chance when you increase in numbers that you also increase in coldness, so were programming to make sure everybody feels involved in whats going on.
A version of this article appears in print on April 11, 2016, on page C3 of the New York edition with the headline: BroadwayCon to Expand to Javits Center in 2017.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
