Dont Cry for Merle Haggard. Cry for Country Music. - 
Dont Cry for Merle Haggard. Cry for Country Music.
Dont Cry for Merle Haggard. Cry for Country Music.
PhotoMerle Haggard in 2015.Credit Owen Sweeney/Invision, via Associated Press
When you read all the tributes today to the late Merle Haggard, all the mournful praise about what a great songwriter he was, remember that a big part of country music today has no interest in Mr. Haggards big themes, the rage and sorrow of the working man. What you hear on the country airwaves today are generic party tunes by gym-toned guys singing about beer and fast cars and sex on pickup-truck tailgates. (Some call it bro country and even its major purveyors find it embarrassing. Whatever you call it, Mr. Haggard hated it.)
According to an interview in 1995, he liked Iris DeMent.
Ms. DeMent, who writes and sings country and gospel with a voice thats wise, sorrowful and unforgettable, appeared on a Haggard tribute album, Tulare Dust. Mr. Haggard said her contribution, a cover of Big City, was his favorite song on the record:
I think she is one of the greatest singers I have ever heard in my life. I heard her on my tribute, went out and bought what was available, which was two albums. Found out shes a new artist and she cant get played because shes too goddamned good. Shes got too much to say, songs mean too much. They make too much sense. Theres not the same line dance tempo going on. If I hear another line dance song I think Im going to puke.
In the spirit of good country tunes, and of not puking, here are two videos. One is Ms. DeMent singing Big City.
This is Mr. Haggard covering Ms. DeMents lament on the death of her father, No Time to Cry.
And here, for comparisons sake, are two reflections of the current state of the commercial genre. To paraphrase one of the songs, this is the kind of music that makes you want to roll your windows down. By which I mean it may make you carsick.
Humans Take Up Air Horns To Confront Gangster Turkeys
G.E. Chief Executive Issues Ill-Advised Response to Bernie Sanders
Anna North writes on cultural topics for the editorial page and is the editor of this blog.
For information on other frequent contributors, meet the editorial writers for The Times.
What the Alicia Machado Story Reveals About Donald Trump
Affordable Care Act Premium Increases Are a Fixable Problem
With rates rising, especially where there is little competition, more middle-class families will need subsidies.
Readers had lots of questions about an editorial on the AT&Ts acquisition of Time Warner. Here are some answers.
Mariano Rajoy is expected to lead the government, but there is little chance that he will be able to get much done.
Lagoons of animal waste flooded by Hurricane Matthew are a public health danger that may be repeated over and over again.
Trump and Clinton do not appear to be having much fun on the campaign trail. Or anywhere else for that matter.
Why is the election rigged at the very moment that a woman is on the verge of victory?
Donald Trump will continue ranting, but we can soon choose whether to listen.
Students who are new to America or lack college-educated parents often dont know their options.
Giving fishermen a business incentive to fish sustainably can unleash their creative capacity to help solve the problem, says one expert.
Even when we disguise their identities, we risk betraying them.
