Beyond Tribeca: New Yorks Many Other Film Fests in April - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Movies|Beyond Tribeca: New Yorks Many Other Film Fests in April
Beyond Tribeca: New Yorks Many Other Film Fests in April
Conrad Veidt in The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari. A restored version of the film will screen at the festival Kino!
In April, the New York City film festival scene often focuses on the popular Tribeca Film Festival (April 13-24), with its robust number of world premieres, celebrity appearances, red-carpet screenings and high-profile parties. But it isnt the only festival in town: There are several others, with focuses ranging from acclaimed work by students to fresh takes on documentaries. We spoke to programmers and organizers of a handful of these events and asked them about their must-see films.Kino! 2016www.kinofestivalnyc.com/April 7-14The goal of Kino! is to highlight new German cinema trends, said Oliver Mahrdt, the festivals organizer. First started as a series at the Museum of Modern Art in 1962, Kino! has continued to introduce audiences to the latest films from Germany.Best Bet: The festivals centerpiece is a restoration of F.W. Murnaus The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, which will include music by the D.J. Raphal Marionneau. His music gives a silent film a complete new meaning, Mr. Mahrdt said.
Art of the Realwww.filmlinc.org/festivals/art-of-the-real/April 8-21The impetus behind this festival was to create a showcase that expanded the definition of documentary, said Dennis Lim, the director of programming at the Film Society of Lincoln Center, where this series is presented. Mr. Lim programmed the series with Rachael Rakes, and it was begun as a response to a narrowing definition of documentary that was more journalistic. We wanted to show essay films, found-footage films and also fiction films that have some documentary aspect to them, he said.Best Bet: Roberto Minervinis The Other Side, one of the opening-night films, about the lives of two Louisiana junkies.
Julia Pointner in Everything Will Be Okay, directed by Patrick Vollrath.
Ivy Film Festivalivyfilmfestival.org/April 6-12, with New York screenings April 8 and April 29Our mission is to celebrate and showcase the work of student filmmakers and screenwriters around the world, said the festivals co-executive director, Solveig Xia, a junior at Brown University in Providence, R.I., where the festival is based. But this year, it is expanding to satellite locations in New York, with an abbreviated version of its program being screened at Columbia University on Friday and at the SVA Theater on April 29. We want audiences to have an idea of what the next generation of filmmakers are making, Ms. Xia said.
Best Bet: Patrick Vollraths Everything Will Be Okay won a medal at last years Student Academy Awards and went on to receive a nomination for best live-action short at this years Oscars. The movie revolves around a divorced fathers visit with his daughter.
New York City Independent Film Festivalwww.nycindieff.com/April 27-May 1We concentrate on the indie filmmaker, the kind of guy who makes a movie in his hometown and is quite often the only filmmaker around, said Dennis Cieri, executive director and co-founder of the festival. We try to build him a community where he can feel safe and see that theres lots of other people doing what hes doing. The festival seeks out indies worldwide but tries to show the films in small theaters, so that if you get 100 people into a theater that seats 100 people, it seems like its crowded and makes it more fun.Best Bet: Joseph Lawrences short film People of the Delta, about Ethiopian tribes who clash during times of drought. The areas residents perform in the short.
Havana Film Festival New Yorkwww.hffny.com/2016/April 7-15This festival, running since 2000, first began as an offshoot of one held in Cuba every December. But it grew to become a showcase for a variety of Latin-American films.Latin-American cinema is having its moment right now, said the festivals artistic director, Diana Vargas. And we wanted to create a festival that is bringing all those films and filmmakers from the region to New York and create a dialogue for audiences to understand what is happening culturally and socially there.Best Bet: Magallanes, Salvador del Solars political thriller about a taxi driver in Lima, Peru, who encounters a passenger with links to his past. Continue reading the main story
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
