Calvin Trillins Poem on Chinese Food Proves Unpalatable for Some - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Asia Pacific|Calvin Trillins Poem on Chinese Food Proves Unpalatable for Some
Calvin Trillins Poem on Chinese Food Proves Unpalatable for Some
The writer Calvin Trillin, center, at an after-party in New York at the restaurant China Grill. He has written extensively about cuisine, including Chinese food in the United States.
The writer Calvin Trillins poem in the April 4 issue of The New Yorker describes, in the voice of an exasperated American foodie, the varieties of Chinese cuisine now available. Some readers found it hard to swallow.Critics of the poem, Have They Run Out of Provinces Yet?, said it was dismissive of Chinese culture.Mr. Trillin has written extensively about food, including Chinese cuisine in the United States. (A New Yorker article in 2010 profiled devotees of the chef Peter Chang.) And he has made a sideline of groan-inducing comic verse; one of his books is a compilation called Deadline Poet: My Life as a Doggerelist.But detractors argued online that his latest effort, which appeared in The New Yorkers food and travel issue, reflected fear and ignorance of China, depicting it as teeming with overwhelming numbers of people and places.The poem begins:Have they run out of provinces yet? If they havent, weve reason to fret.Long ago, there was just Cantonese.(Long ago, we were easy to please.)But then food from Szechuan came our way,Making Cantonese strictly pass.Szechuanese was the song that we sung,Though the ma po could burn through your tongue.Then when Shanghainese got in the loopWe slurped dumplings whose insides were soup.Then Hunan, the birth province of Mao,Came along with its own style of chow.So we thought we were finished, and thenA new province arrived: Fukien.The website Jezebel mocked Mr. Trillin and his poem from the perspective of a sixth-grader writing a book report: The protagonist of the poem is a man who really likes Chinese people but thinks there are too many of them. He also really likes to eat Chinese food but is scared by how many kinds there are.
An article in The Stranger, an alternative weekly based in Seattle, said that Mr. Trillins talk of potentially endless provinces plays on the stereotype of the Chinese horde and stokes xenophobic fears.In an email to The Guardian, Mr. Trillin said that the poem was simply a way of making fun of food-obsessed bourgeoisie. He told the newspaper that his 2003 poem What Happened to Brie and Chablis? poked fun at similar trendiness in Western cuisine but was not meant as an insult to the French.That explanation did not mollify his critics on Twitter and elsewhere.  Its satire! should not be used as a safety net for poorly conceived, poorly executed, or unwisely published pieces, the novelist Celeste Ng wrote.
But others found such condemnation excessive. Kaiser Kuo, a Chinese-American writer based in Beijing, posted that he cant fathom why some Chinese-Americans take such affront at Calvin Trillins Chinese food poem.An update to The Strangers piece acknowledges the possibility that Mr. Trillin was being ironic. The writer quotes an English professor as telling him, in reference to Mr. Trillin, Hes been a food writer and poet of doggerel verse for a million years and Ive seen him riding his bike around Chinatown, where he loves to eat.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Insight, analysis and conversation about Chinese culture, media and politics.
In Gaining Currency, a Look at Chinas Global Ambitions for Its Money
She Asked Him to Stop Smoking. To Chinas Shock, He Beat Her Instead.
Corruption in China: Crocodile Meat, Jade, Piles of Cash
On the Role of Chinese Religion in Environmental Protection
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
