Obama Revisits Law School to Give a Supreme Court Lecture - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Politics|Obama Revisits Law School to Give a Supreme Court Lecture
Obama Revisits Law School to Give a Supreme Court Lecture
Barack Obama returned to the University of Chicago Law School, where he taught, for the first time as president, saying that Republicans should take action on his nominee to the Supreme Court, Merrick B. Garland.
Photo by Kamil Krzaczynski/European Pressphoto Agency.
CHICAGO  For a dozen years at the University of Chicago Law School, President Obama taught students the finer points of constitutional jurisprudence, preaching what he would later try to put into practice in the Oval Office.On Thursday, he returned to the law school for the first time as president, using the backdrop of his onetime academic life to underscore his demand that Republicans reverse their opposition to holding hearings on his nominee to the Supreme Court, Judge Merrick B. Garland.Its not just that the Republican majority in the Senate intends to vote against a highly qualified judge, Mr. Obama told about 250 law students and faculty members. We now have a situation where theyre saying we simply will not consider the nomination itself.In the hour-and-a-half session, Mr. Obama gave long answers that may have seemed familiar to students who participate in philosophical legal discussions. He cautioned that the polarization of the political parties threatened to tarnish the judicial system and ultimately undermine Americans views of their democracy.Those in the Senate have decided that placating our base is more important than upholding their constitutional and institutional roles in our democracy in a way that is dangerous, the president said.
Mr. Obama warned that Republicans stance on the nomination could have lasting effects. If he were succeeded by a Republican, he said, Democrats would be unlikely to give a new nominee an easy path to confirmation, potentially leaving the seat unfilled for an extended period.Republicans issued responses to Mr. Obamas talk even before he was finished. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, accused Mr. Obama of trying to deny the American people a voice by ramming through a nominee before the November election.They dont want the American people messing this up for them, Mr. McConnell said in a speech on Thursday, referring to the president and his allies. And theyll say what they always say to get what they want today: a far-left Supreme Court for decades to come.
From left, Mr. Obama with Ellen Fulton, Joe Khan, and Dan Johnson in 1999 at the University of Chicago Law School.
White House aides hoped that bringing Mr. Obama back to his roots as a constitutional scholar would help maintain pressure on Republicans to change course. The president started his talk by taking questions from David Strauss, a law professor at the university and a former colleague there.Mr. Strauss asked whether liberals should be disappointed in his choice of Judge Garland, the centrist chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The president defended his choice, saying that the role of the courts was only rarely to engage in broad societal change.The courts are a terrific shield; they are not always a very effective sword, Mr. Obama said, citing what he said was an adage in constitutional law classes.Questions from some of the students were somewhat sharper: One asked Mr. Obama about bias in the mass incarceration of minorities, and another wondered whether Democrats were headed toward a serious clash between populists and the establishment.The cleavages inside the Democratic Party are not comparable to what were seeing inside the Republican Party right now, Mr. Obama said.
A question about diversity  and whether Judge Garland, a white man from Skokie, Ill., advanced that goal  prompted the president to say that he does not designate any particular appointment for a specific minority group.
First Draft Political news and analysis from the staff of The New York Times.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
At no point did I say: I need a black lesbian from Skokie in that slot. Can you find me one? Mr. Obama said. Thats not how I approached it.About Judge Garland, he added: Yeah, hes a white guy. But hes a really outstanding jurist. Sorry!Perhaps the toughest question came last, from a third-year law student who accused the administration of conducting drone strikes that kill some innocent people without proper legal oversight.
Where Republican Senators Stand on the Supreme Court Nomination
Fourteen Republicans and all Democrats are needed to break a filibuster and confirm the nominee.
Mr. Obama took 10 minutes to answer what he called a fair question. He said drone strikes in the first two years of his administration had been carried out with an insufficient overarching structure. But he said his administration had since put in place more oversight and a more rigorous decision-making process.Part of my job as president is to figure out how I can keep America safe doing the least damage possible in really tough, bad situations, he said. And I dont have the luxury of just not doing anything and then being able to stand back and feel as if my conscience is clear.He said he wished he could just send in Ironman, and then quickly added that he did not mean that as a joke. He said that he hoped that the tragedy of war, conflict, terrorism, etc., did not end up leading the United States to use force in ways that hurt innocent people.But he said that Hollywood and the popular media had unfairly described drone operators as people who were irresponsible or bloodless and are going around blowing up children  thats just not the case.Mr. Obama joined the faculty at the University of Chicago in 1991 and taught part time while he pursued a political career as a state senator. He became a senior lecturer, teaching due process and equal protection, a voting rights class and a seminar on racism and law.
Former students have said he was a popular and engaging professor, though sometimes enigmatic when it came to revealing his views about the law.After the session, Mr. Obama taped an interview with Chris Wallace, the host of Fox News Sunday, to discuss the court fight and other topics, officials said. It will be Mr. Obamas first appearance on the program since becoming president.On Thursday night, Mr. Obama headed to the West Coast to help raise money for Democratic candidates. The president was scheduled to attend several events in Los Angeles and San Francisco before returning to Washington on Saturday.Along for the ride was his daughter Malia, who is in the final stages of deciding which college to attend. White House officials declined to provide details about her schedule in California.
Follow The New York Timess politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Obama Revisits Law School to Give a Supreme Court Lecture.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Continuing coverage on the nomination process for the 113th Supreme Court justice.
Donald Trump Warns of a Liberal Supreme Court if Hillary Clinton Wins
Study Calls Snub of Obamas Supreme Court Pick Unprecedented
Supreme Court Nominee Merrick Garland Advises Graduates on Facing Twists and Turns
For Merrick Garland and Republicans, a Tango of Praise and Rejection
Its a Stretch, but Mitch McConnell Is Reaching Across the Aisle
Court Nominees First Meeting With Opposition Portends a Hard Path
Republican Senator Meets With Garland, and Urges Colleagues to Follow
Despite Meetings With Merrick Garland, Senate G.O.P. Sees Little Give in Stance
Obama Commutes Sentences for 61 Convicted of Drug Crimes
Court Nominees First Meeting With Opposition Portends a Hard Path
Republican Senator Meets With Garland, and Urges Colleagues to Follow
Despite Meetings With Merrick Garland, Senate G.O.P. Sees Little Give in Stance
Obama Commutes Sentences for 61 Convicted of Drug Crimes
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
