A Promise to Favor Republicans for Ohio Jobs Spurs Call for Inquiry - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|A Promise to Favor Republicans for Ohio Jobs Spurs Call for Inquiry
A Promise to Favor Republicans for Ohio Jobs Spurs Call for Inquiry
Democratic lawmakers in Ohio called for an investigation into the hiring process at the state Department of Transportation after a politician said in a Facebook post that young Republicans would get preference for summer jobs at the agency, raising questions about cronyism in its hiring.A Republican member of the Marietta City Council, Cindy Oxender, wrote a Facebook post on March 29 that advertised six summer jobs for high school and college students with the Ohio department. Young Republicans who applied would have a leg up, she said.Its good money, good experience, and a very nice rsum builder, she wrote, adding between parentheses, Preference is given to Republican youth on this!Ms. Oxender deleted the post after criticism from news media in Ohio and a request from the citys legal director, Paul Bertram. But it brought unwelcome attention to the city where Gov. John Kasich, the presidential candidate, delivered his State of the State address on Wednesday night.State Representative Nicholas J. Celebrezze, the assistant minority leader of the Ohio House, and State Representative Michael P. Sheehy, both Democrats, asked the state inspector general, Randall J. Meyer, on Wednesday to open an investigation into how the Transportation Department hires seasonal workers.
Employment based on political affiliation, when it is not required for the effective performance of a position, is generally prohibited by state and federal Civil Service laws, they wrote in a letter to the inspector general.In a statement, Mr. Celebrezze said, Any indication that state job opportunities near Marietta are awarded based on political affiliation is deeply troubling.Ms. Oxender apologized for the post in a statement on Wednesday and said the episode had taught her about the requirements, limitations and restrictions placed upon public servants. She also shifted the blame, saying she had not written the post, but had merely shared something that was written by someone else.I made an error in judgment in sharing a post made by a colleague on my private Facebook page which was a summer job notice, and indicating there might be a political preference in the selection process, she said.
Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Ms. Oxender did not respond to questions on Wednesday about the identity of that person or what, if any, position he or she occupies in state or local government or the Republican Party.The Department of Transportation denied that beliefs play any role in how young people are hired for summer jobs, a process handled at the local level in each of its 12 districts across the state.When asked if the post written or shared by Ms. Oxender reflected the departments hiring process, a spokesman, Matt Bruning, replied: Oh God, no. No.Mr. Bruning added that a local politician like Ms. Oxender would not be involved in evaluating candidates or extending a job offer. The department looks at applicants qualifications, not their voting records, he said.
I have no idea why she felt she needed to say something about political parties being part of the equation because that is not something that we do, he said. To write that there is preferential treatment given to a member of a political party is insane.Mr. Bertram, the city legal director and a former Republican City Council president, denied that political cronyism played any role in how government jobs were given out in Marietta. He said doing so would not be kosher.He called Ms. Oxenders Facebook post an off-the-cuff statement that was inappropriate that has been blown out of proportion, but said he had trouble understanding why she would have written or shared it at all.I dont think she was trying to be funny, he said. I just dont understand. I think it just comes down to she wasnt thinking.City Council members are not directly involved in the personnel decisions of the Transportation Department, he said, but he added that a local politician could recommend job applicants, and then they are pushed on to the powers that be for an interview.Mr Bruning, the department spokesman, agreed that a good word from a City Council member could help an applicant for a summer job, but said that it would have no more weight than the endorsement of a friend or acquaintance.We get recommendations all the time, he said. She could recommend a person, but that doesnt mean we would be obligated to hire them.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: G.O.P. Youth Apply Here? City Official Stirs Outcry.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
