Updating Tradition: Jackie McDowell, Tim Hecker and More - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Music|Updating Tradition: Jackie McDowell, Tim Hecker and More
Updating Tradition: Jackie McDowell, Tim Hecker and More
Jackie McDowells New Blood Medicine is now out on CD-R.
Jackie McDowellNEW BLOOD MEDICINEJackie McDowell connects the sounds of various folk traditions  vocal rounds, acoustic guitar, harmonium, dulcimer and the drone-producing shruti boxes of Indian music  with the meditative care of a private ceremony and the blurriness of hallucination. Based in Pittsburgh, she has put out a few dozen recordings since 2009, often on cassette or limited-quantity disc, sometimes under the name Inez Lightfoot. New Blood Medicine is her latest, released online earlier this year and just now available as a CD-R from the French label Wild Silence. Its a record that leads with atmospheric detail: echo effects, deliberate placement of sounds around microphones (a shaker up close, a whistled melody far away) and incidental or accidental buzzes, hums, distortions and radio transmissions. But it also has songs with lingering intent, including Thirteen Mothers Rise and Scrape Dirt Marrow.
Love Streams is the new album from the electronic musician Tim Hecker.
Tim HeckerLOVE STREAMSThe electronic musician Tim Hecker makes his work counterintuitively back-to-front. He likes taking musics aftereffects, the contrails of a tone, and using them as compositional material. In his 2011 masterpiece Ravedeath, 1972, he recorded the sound of a pipe organ reverberating through an Icelandic church and used isolated bits of that site-specific cacophony  pressure waves against curvilinear surfaces  as beds for other sounds. In his new album, Love Streams (4AD), hes doing something analogous with the human voice. He started with renaissance choral pieces by Josquin des Prez, fed them through a digital program that rendered them into instrumental compositions, rearranged them beyond recognition and then in some cases directed a choir to render new lines over that, singing in  as he has described it in an interview  reverse Latin. (Of course.) The atmosphere of this music is lighter and less haunted than some of Mr. Heckers past work; some parts of the new album, like Music of the Air, can be thrilling in its evocation of a seamless connection between the physical and the synthetic. It also, sometimes, seems more impersonal, as if the ideas have the edge over their physical manifestation.
Marcus Strickland and his band, Twi-Life, are making a broad statement.
Marcus Stricklands Twi-LifeNIHIL NOVISince 2001, the tenor and soprano saxophonist Marcus Strickland has been pursuing parallel interests in jazz as a well-defined, acoustic, instrumental tradition and, with his band Twi-Life, as a jumping-off place for satisfying other urges: R&B, hip-hop, saxophone-choir writing, West African music. Nihil Novi (Blue Note), his best work with Twi-Life and his broadest statement yet, feels timely: If you absorbed Kamasi Washingtons expansive 2015 record The Epic, with its orchestral spaciness and hard funk, you will have a framework to understand Mr. Stricklands smaller scale. Produced by Meshell Ndegeocello and dotted with guest appearances from musicians including the singer Jean Baylor, the bassist Pino Palladino and the drummer Chris Dave, its a record of serene refusal, floating among traditions rather than settling within one.
Henry Threadgill dedicated his new album to a friend who died in 2013.
Henry Threadgill Ensemble Double UpOLD LOCKS AND IRREGULAR VERBSA lot of Henry Threadgills best work, especially since the 1980s, sounds like mutated dirges, processionals with a melancholic edge. They are polytonal, modular and complex, but theyre always elegantly moving forward. One of the most original American composers of the last hundred years  with experience in the classical tradition, funk, marches, mariachi, pre- and post-bebop jazz, and gospel  Mr. Threadgill reliably keeps his feet on the ground. It doesnt matter how far inside his own compositional system hes operating: His music gets to the bottom of human experience. Since the beginning of the new century, the vector for that system has been his ensemble Zooid, with drums, cello, guitar, brass and himself on alto saxophone. His new album, Old Locks and Irregular Verbs (Pi), uses a different setup: two pianos (Jason Moran and David Virelles) and two alto saxophones (Roman Filiu and Curtis MacDonald), as well as cello, tuba and drums. It is a dedication to his friend Butch Morris, the composer and conductor, who died in 2013, and most of it proceeds in its snakelike, funky way much like Mr. Threadgills music of the last 15 years, but with a wider array of melody and attack. The big surprise comes in the last seven minutes of the nearly 50-minute work: slow, powerful and direct, growing without a steady pulse until it crests with ensemble-wide chords and cymbal crashes. It comes on like a valedictory and closes like a national anthem.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page AR21 of the New York edition with the headline: Updating Tradition for a New Century.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
