Q. and A. With Steven Pasquale: Mr. Nice Guy Goes Nasty - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Theater|Q. and A. With Steven Pasquale: Mr. Nice Guy Goes Nasty
Q. and A. With Steven Pasquale: Mr. Nice Guy Goes Nasty
Steven Pasquale, who plays Mark Fuhrman on The People v. O.J. Simpson, is now starring onstage in The Robber Bridegroom.
In the Roundabout Theater Company musical The Robber Bridegroom, Jamie Lockhart is a man with two faces  gentleman by day, bandit by night  that render him unrecognizable. But Steven Pasquale, the actor who plays him, can count a lot higher than that.Consider the last year: In FXs The People v. O. J. Simpson: American Crime Story, he has tempered his flowing mane and swoon-inducing smile to play Mark Fuhrman, the bigoted Los Angeles police detective who helped derail the case against Mr. Simpson. In Showtimes Billions, he was the headhunter who sparks with Wendy Rhoades (Maggie Siff), a psychiatrist at a hedge fund and the spouse of a United States attorney. And in CBSs The Good Wife, he swanned in as the campaign manager  and sexual fantasy  of Alicia Florrick (Julianna Margulies), then just as quickly departed.But all that television preening supports his true passion, he insists. For me, its always about returning to the theater, said Mr. Pasquale, 39, whose fiance, Phillipa Soo, channels Eliza Schuyler in the Broadway blockbuster Hamilton. (Weep, those who still cant get tickets: He has seen the show 10 times.) I feel like the acting muscle only gets better when youre onstage. And that theres a direct correlation between music and joy. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.Why were you, of all people, cast as Mark Fuhrman?Ryan Murphy liked the challenge that it presented for me and for him, and I did, too. It was a pretty easy sell. I think he wanted to find an actor who generally plays likable people to play this guy so famous for screwing something up so badly.What was it like repeating Mr. Fuhrmans vile words?Pretty hard. Ive never used that kind of language in my life. I cant imagine being a human being who does. I actually felt like those words didnt sound natural coming out, so I had to attempt to wrap my mouth around it a handful of times.Did you meet him?I did not. But I watched a lot of courtroom footage. He was a very confident guy, with a still-waters-run-deep sort of military energy about him, which is all I was really interested in taking from his real life.You were a freshman in high school at the time, but do you remember the trial?Very well. I wasnt obsessed. But I remember the car chase being on every television, and it feeling like the advent of reality television and that sort of zeitgeisty moment in entertainment history.
Tell me about The Robber Bridegroom.Well, its a super Southern-fried, giant fairy tale based on this impossibly beautiful Eudora Welty novella, loosely based on the Brothers Grimm. Its very Shakespearean in its comedic goals, with an intensely toe-tapping bluegrass score.In a 2014 Times interview you said Broadway, not television or film, had always been your goal.Still is. Look, whats happening in the theater right now is really complicated. Seventy percent of ticket buyers are tourists, and 30 percent are New Yorkers, and that number was reversed for many years. So somehow weve got to get back to making stuff for people that are not necessarily interested in seeing the common Broadway fare. The majority of great work thats being done in the theater is happening Off Broadway, where you cant make a living.
Steven Pasquale sings an excerpt from Soliloquy in the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical Carousel at the Lyric Opera of Chicago.
Do you have a suggestion, a dream project perhaps?Carousel. I did it at the Lyric Opera of Chicago last spring, and I just think it is maybe the greatest American musical that has ever been written  and that its time to do it again.That same article called you Broadways newest lust-worthy leading man? Do you feel Do I feel that that is the case? Not at all. I just respond to the stories Im being asked to tell. But its very nice, and its very flattering and, of course, weird as hell, but Ill take it!
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page AR6 of the New York edition with the headline: Mr. Nice Guy Goes Nasty.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
The People v. O.J. Simpson: Why the Trial Matters Now
The People v. O.J. Simpson Finale: Still Not Guilty
The Breakout Star of The People v. O.J. Simpson on the Emotional Finale
The People v. O.J. Simpson Creators on the Finale, the Kardashians and the Race Card
Review: The Robber Bridegroom Is Heavy on the Twang
Brief interviews with rising and established stars.
Christopher Guest: No Eccentric Obsession Left Behind
Anna Kendrick: Movie Star. Twitter Star. Ready for More.
Hugh Laurie Is Playing Doctor Again. But Dont Quiz Him.
Geena Davis Talks About The Exorcist and Women Onscreen
The People v. O.J. Simpson: Why the Trial Matters Now
The People v. O.J. Simpson Finale: Still Not Guilty
The Breakout Star of The People v. O.J. Simpson on the Emotional Finale
The People v. O.J. Simpson Creators on the Finale, the Kardashians and the Race Card
Review: The Robber Bridegroom Is Heavy on the Twang
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
