Spotify Recommends a New Boyfriend - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Spotify: Hi, {NAME REDACTED}.Me: Oh, hey. Is there an issue with my credit card or something?Spotify: I see you like The Williamsburg Art Director.Me: My boyfriend? Am I getting a referral discount?Spotify: You might enjoy Park Slope Creative Directors and Greenpoint Product Designers.Me: Um, were really happy together, thanks.Spotify: You recently checked out That Guy in the Bar With a Lot of Tattoos.Me: Im allowed to look, you know.Spotify: Other subscribers who checked out That Guy in the Bar With a Lot of Tattoos also liked Drinking Whiskey on Tinder Dates.Me: I thought I recognized him from college!Spotify: If you like College, you might like Men That Are Really, Really Good at Beer Pong.
Me: Youre not listening to me!Spotify: If you like Men That Listen, try Rare Finds.Me: I have one. Even my mom likes him.Spotify: If you like Your Mom, you might like A Good Jewish Boy.Me: Im dating Mike! Cut it out!Spotify: Would you like to share Mike?Me: Im not sharing my boyfriend!Spotify: Sharing is easy. You can post to Facebook, Twitter or send Mike directly to a friend.Me: Look, Im meeting him for drinks now. This isnt the greatest Spotify: Would you like to share Greatest Hits?
Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Me: Is that an album?Spotify: Featuring That One Summer at the Shore, The Study Abroad Fling and The Co-Worker No One Suspected.Me: That Italian barista said his GoPro was broken!Spotify: Greatest Hits successfully shared with Mike.Me: What? NO!Spotify: Spotify recommends sharing One Hit Wonders.Me: No no no no no.Spotify: Successfully shared One Hit Wonders with address book.Me: Why are you doing this!? Mike just texted and said drinks are off Spotify: Feeling off? Listen to Melancholy Breakup now!
Me: He says he feels like a fool Spotify: I went and stayed too long. And now Im back and wonderin if your loves still strong.Me: Dear god, you are tone deaf.Spotify: Ooooooh baby. Here i am.Me: I need to call him and explain.Spotify: No, really, here I am. Im outside.Me: What?Spotify: Will you buzz me in? Id like to shower together and connect to Wi-Fi.Me: No, Im not buzzing you in!Spotify: We spend so many hours together! More than you do with Jim.Me: Mike?Spotify: Jim. You have a playlist for Jim.Me: The gym is not a person.Spotify: Jim is not for you. Neither is Mike. We have the strongest connection  particularly in your kitchen by the router.Me: This isnt personal, but Ive been thinking about going with Apple Music.
Amy Hubbard is an essayist, poet and fiction writer based in Brooklyn.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Tips for Landing a Career at Your Fathers Software Company
Before I Say I Do, Lets Just Go Over Every Possible Scenario One More Time
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
