A Tour of William Wegmans Studio in Chelsea - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Mens Style|A Tour of William Wegmans Studio in Chelsea
Name William WegmanAge 72Occupation Artist and author, most recently of William Wegman PaintingsLocation ManhattanFavorite Room Mr. Wegman lives in a fortresslike building in Chelsea that was formerly a day school, a space he shares with his wife, Christine Burgin, and two Weimaraners, Flo and Topper.What was your greatest artistic breakthrough in this room? I think dealing with postcards. I attach them to the canvas. I go off from the edges and try to make them get lost in the surface.Are these paintings works in progress? All these things are here because Im still working on them. Paintings get built slowly. Theyre easy to start, impossible to finish.
This white chair held together with duct tape must have a story. This chair in particular was in a piece called Throwing Down Chairs, so it got kind of smashed. John Baldessari, who took over the studio space I had in Los Angeles when I left for New York, mailed it back to me. It was really cool that he would do that.You moved to the city in 1973. What were your first studios like? My first space was $200 a month for 2,500 square feet. Briefly, I had 7,000 square feet for $350 a month, down below the Trade Center. I dont know if I could really manage it now. I didnt love New York when I came here. I really thought Id be going back to L.A., where I lived a block from the beach with my dog, and I was really happy. I was never really happy in New York.Are you still unhappy in New York? Moving here changed that. The other key thing is I started playing ice hockey, and Im a couple of blocks from the Chelsea Piers. I also have a hockey net up on the roof here where I shoot pucks.Youre known for using your dogs in your work. How are Flo and Topper as models? Flo gives you a lot of psychology. When shes up there, shes thinking. When hes up on something, hes just there. Like a mountain goat.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page D15 of the New York edition with the headline: An Artists Muses.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
On HBOs Girls, a Kitty Genovese Plot Proves Eerily Timed
Uber Driver Napped as His Passenger Led Highway Chase, Police Say
A New Rhode Island Slogan Encounters Social Medias Wrath
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
