Lewis Hamilton, Flashy on the Track and Off - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Fashion & Style|Lewis Hamilton, Flashy on the Track and Off
Lewis Hamilton in Hugo Boss. With a suit, I like more of a classic, clean look. I like the fabrics to be more lightweight.
Lewis Hamilton, 31, the current Formula One champion, has won more grand prix races than any other British driver in the history of the sport. Raised in Stevenage, England, and now based in Monaco, he is defending his title this season, which kicked off March 20. Mr. Hamilton, a phenom who first got behind the wheel at age 8, is
a frequent presence at fashion shows, and sports a look much like his racing style: sleek and occasionally flashy.1 Shirt I dont mind dress shirts if I have a real posh event to dress up for, but generally, if I can be more casual, Ill choose to do that. I love some stuff I have from Oliver Spencer. Its a British brand and Ive met him through the shows  I recently joined London Collections: Men as an ambassador. His style is just fantastic. Its very clean.
NYT Living Newsletter Get lifestyle news from the Style, Travel and Food sections, from the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
2 Jeans In Formula One, you have all these big brands involved, so there are very strict guidelines. You have to kind of wear what youre told to wear. Its kind of hard to still be yourself in it. Thats why its great to be able to come out and be able to show a little bit of your character and what you like and what your personality is when youre not racing. Such as, I wear jeans a lot. One of my favorites is Saint Laurent, especially the ripped version. Its slim fit, but not too tight that you cant move. Black is always safe, but generally I like the denim look with a faded kind of wash.3 Suit I wear the Hugo Boss tailor-made suits. Theyre a sponsor for our Formula One team. Ive been up to their offices in Germany where they do the perfect fittings, and I get to select all the different fabrics to use, which is great. With a suit, I like more of a classic, clean look. I like the fabrics to be more lightweight. I dont like it to be too hot or too tight. I chose to wear gray and black today because its classic and casual, but Im often in lots of different colors. I love wearing color.
These are Cartier bracelets, which have diamonds, that I wear all the time. One is the Nail bracelet and the other is a Love bracelet.
4 Accessories If youre wearing something simple and gray, youve got to set it off with certain things. I wear it with a watch and bracelets to make it pop off. These are Cartier bracelets, which have diamonds, that I wear all the time. One is the nail bracelet and the other is a Love bracelet. They say, Diamonds are a womans best friend. I disagree, because they can be the same for men. Im probably the only man in my sport who wears diamonds.5 Shoes I love sneakers. I wear more of a sneaker than a shoe now. Theres a Berlin-based brand, Patrick Mohr, whose styles are pretty cool. They have great texture and shapes on the side, and he uses rose gold. They also have quite long laces and quite a big, full tongue. I found them on Instagram. I follow sneaker websites and Instagram accounts to see whats going on.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page D13 of the New York edition with the headline: A Racer Minus the Sponsor Logos.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
