Nigel Sylvesters Ride Into Fashion Is No Stunt - 

Mens Style|Nigel Sylvesters Ride Into Fashion Is No Stunt
Nigel Sylvester recently started a video series called Go!, using a Sony camera that captures the action from his point of view.
Age 28Hometown QueensNow Lives In a brownstone in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.Claim to Fame Mr. Sylvester is a professional BMX biker who made his name not through competitions, as most bikers do, but on YouTube and Instagram (@nigelsylvester), where he has more than 150,000 followers. Sports Illustrated called him one of the most naturally gifted athletes in the sport in 2015. One image, posted last fall on Instagram, shows him levitating above his handlebars as he rides up First Avenue in the East Village. I dared to dream and decided to chase it, he wrote in the caption, rather than listen to them tell me no and embrace it.Big Break In 2006, Mr. Sylvester was featured in a BMX DVD called Flipside, which paired four amateur riders with four professionals, one of whom was Dave Mirra, one of the biggest names in BMX bikes. Mr. Mirra (who died in February of an apparent suicide) signed Mr. Sylvester to his company, Mirraco, at 18. What Michael Jordan is to basketball, Dave Mirra is to BMX, Mr. Sylvester said. I got one of the best co-signs in BMX history, a kid coming from New York City. Nike, which was starting up its BMX program, signed Mr. Sylvester after Mr. Mirra did.
Mr. Sylvester is taking Go! to Los Angeles and to other cities. His dream locale: Dubai.
Latest Project He recently started a new video series called Go!, with a Sony camera that captures the action from his point of view. I want to do this video, he said, where people can understand what I feel, what I see, what I hear and who I interact with on a normal day. The first installation shows him flying through the streets of New York, meeting up with friends like Victor Cruz, the New York Giants wide receiver; ASAP Ferg, the rapper; and Mr. Flawless, the jewelry designer. The video had more than 1.9 million views on YouTube in a recent count.
Nigel Sylvester - "Go!' 2 | Los Angeles Video by Nigel Sylvester Live
Next Thing He is taking Go! to Los Angeles and to other cities. His dream locale: Dubai. It is unlike any other city in the world, he said. Mr. Sylvester and his streetwear partner Jason Hall, a.k.a. Cheech, are also working on expanding their line called Pyradice to a full collection.Fashion Cred Any given moment I could jump on my bicycle no matter what Im wearing, said Mr. Sylvester, who has been spotted at numerous fashion shows, including Tim Coppens, Pyer Moss and John Elliott. He has also been on the runway, doing tricks for VFiles last September.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page D8 of the New York edition with the headline: Taking It From the Streets.


