Heroin-Related Violence Mars a Colorado Citys Effort to Recover - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|Heroin-Related Violence Mars a Colorado Citys Effort to Recover
Heroin-Related Violence Mars a Colorado Citys Effort to Recover
Esai Torres, 14, recently left a gang in Pueblo, Colo., where violence has surged recently.
PUEBLO, Colo.  In the heart of territory run by the gang Los Carnales East Side Dukes  on a corner known as the Devils Triangle  a 14-year-old who describes himself as a baby gangster explained why he was trying to escape the crew.I really didnt want to end up six feet under, said Esai Torres, who joined the Dukes at 12, beating up rivals and following in the footsteps of his father, a leader on the streets.The city of Pueblo  a gateway to the Southwest and home to gangs that span generations  is caught up in a wave of violence that has alarmed everyone from the baby gangsters and their families to local and federal officials. Pueblo had 13 homicides in 2014 and another 13 in 2015, giving the city the unfortunate distinction of having the highest per-capita murder rate in the state. At 12 murders per 100,000 people, its homicide incidence is three times that of New York City, and twice that of Brooklyn, New Yorks deadliest borough.Were in an unusually violent spike right now, said Jim Moore, an F.B.I. special agent who has spent the last 14 years trying to drive out Pueblos gangs. There is a small group of each gang that will shoot at a rival gang member any time of the day or night and anywhere, just because they happen to be a rival gang member. Continue reading the main story
The warfare has left bystanders dead in the quaint city center, prompted police officers to leave the force and set off arguments over what to do next. The police estimate that there are 1,200 gang members  male and female  in this community of 108,000.
Esai comes from a family with gang ties so deep that he is named for the neighborhood  Esai, for East Side. He joined the same gang as his father.
By nearly all accounts, the surge in violence is driven by a phenomenon rolling through communities from Long Island to St. Louis and Los Angeles: a flood of cheap heroin from Mexico and an eager base of customers from a range of economic backgrounds, some of whom switched to the drug after using prescription painkillers.Many gang members have become addicts themselves, and officials say that heroins pull  perhaps more than any other drug  has fueled recruitment and frayed gang codes that once prevented violence from spilling over.
Ive never seen people so sick off of a habit, said Tressa Vigil, 36, a longtime member of the Dukes who used crystal meth for 20 years. That theyre willing to do anything, including sell their own family over, their own freedom over, their whatever over, to fix that sickness.Pueblo has long been a Colorado icon, a high-desert community two hours south of Denver that is home to the 143-year-old state fair and a once-booming steel mill that drew immigrants from around the world. But the mill went bankrupt after the steel crash of the 1980s  it now runs as a shadow of its former self  making Pueblo one of many struggling American manufacturing towns in search of a new economic engine.The Dukes run a section of downtown Pueblo from East 19th Street down to the Lower East Side. They recruit children at the library, wear blue, shave their heads and tattoo their biceps with the number 13 for the letter M  the 13th letter in the alphabet and a homage to the group they claim as their national affiliate, the Mexican Mafia.Their rivals, the Little Aces, control an area farther east known as the Dog Patch and ink one another with spades.
Discarded needles used to inject heroin in Pueblo. The police estimate that there are 1,200 gang members in the city of 108,000, some addicted to the drug, some selling it.
Despite the problems, there are signs of resurgence. In recent years, the region has lured a wind turbine manufacturer, a solar farm, and a hemp oil processing facility that will be built soon. A fit-for-a-postcard downtown features antique shops and art studios. And city leaders like to say that Pueblo is on its way to becoming an affordable Taos or Santa Fe. We have so much going for us, said Steve Nawrocki, the City Council president.But unemployment, poverty, gangs and drug use continue to haunt Pueblo.In late February, Devin Clark, 26, was the latest bystander caught in the chaos, when he was shot in the chest by a drive-by shooter on Main Street. His funeral was attended by 1,300 people, many of whom sobbed as they recalled a 6-foot-7 ironworker raised in the community who had no ties to gangs.In an interview at the Clark family home, Devins brother Tyler said he thought community leaders had failed to protect his family  and the families of two other bystanders, Ricky Muniz and Isaiah Vialpando, who died in similar shootings in September. Pueblo is a dead end, said Mr. Clark, 24. There is no sense of hope here anymore.The Police Department has hemorrhaged staff since the recession amid shrinking budgets. There are about 180 active officers in Pueblo, down from 207 in the last decade. Four recruits recently left, with some saying they were fearful of working in the area, said the police chief, Luis Velez.
Perhaps those most affected by the surge in violence are the people of the impoverished, heavily Latino East Side. Across a bridge from the manicured downtown, the neighborhood is a braid of wire fences, taco shops, condemned buildings and modest houses  the homes of 14-year-old Esai Torres and thousands of others whose lives are intertwined with the Dukes and the Aces.One day at dusk, two heroin users shot up in a liquor store parking lot visible from a major thoroughfare. A few feet away, children bounced on a trampoline by their front door. And just beyond, the police pushed a man against the back of a squad car, cuffing him and leading him away.
The Los Carnales East Side Dukes mark their territory using the number 13 for the letter M  the 13th letter  which pays homage to their national affiliate, the Mexican Mafia.
We cant go with our mom because shes doing drugs, said one of the children on the trampoline, Aunalea Ornelas, a 7-year-old who spoke with the permission of her grandmother, who is raising Aunalea. And my dad is locked up.Esai comes from a family with gang ties so deep that he is named for the neighborhood  Esai for East Side. His mother, Crystal Maestas, 34, who gave permission for him to be interviewed, said that she ran with the Dukes as a teenager. (She now works the graveyard shift at an assisted living home.)His father, Martn Torres, was a gang leader who spent much of his life in prison until he died in 2005 of a drug overdose. Everybody said I looked like him, and I thought, Maybe I could be him, Esai said. I thought it would be cool to be just like my dad.After Esai joined the Dukes, a 15-year-old friend was fatally shot in the chest. Two cousins became addicted to heroin. He watched a peer shoot up, convulse and overdose. A few months ago, Esai found a mixed martial arts gym run by a former member of the Aces and began working out rigorously; his grades have gone from Fs to Cs, and he has drifted away from gang life.His mother said she was proud of his change. And his sister, DeVida Griego, 8, said she was working on her own goals.I want to be a police officer, she said recently, sitting at home in pink pajamas, so I can pick up the neighborhood.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: A Surge of Violence in a City of Gangs.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
