Review: Look at Us Now, Mother!, a Documentary of a Family and Its Discontents - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Movies|Review: Look at Us Now, Mother!, a Documentary of a Family and Its Discontents
Review: Look at Us Now, Mother!, a Documentary of a Family and Its Discontents
Its easy to like everyone in Look at Us Now, Mother!, and thats the death knell for this documentary. For a movie that promises an epic journey to explore a familys long-buried suffering, its strangely unsatisfying, and eventually wearisome, to find that this clan is deeply troubled perhaps only in the eyes of its filmmaker.In her directors statement and in the movie, Gayle Kirschenbaum talks about how, as a child, she felt as if she didnt belong, and how she believes that her current dissatisfactions may be rooted in her early relationship with her mother, Mildred.
Sign Up for the Watching Newsletter Get recommendations on the best TV shows and films to stream and watch.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Mildred, now in her 90s, agreed to be filmed in interviews and during joint counseling sessions with Gayle. In addition, home movies are excerpted, as are Gayles journals. Those detail a middle-class familys standard disappointments, and Mildreds occasional undermining of Gayles self-confidence. Mildreds behavior is bothersome, and at times genuinely mean, but it would all be a minor aside in truly insightful family documentaries, like Tarnation or 51 Birch Street.Though were told of some feelings of discontent, were shown an otherwise stable and healthy family. We watch footage of lavish trips Gayle and Mildred take together to France and India, and learn of Gayles successful career and her affection for her dog.Compared with the millions of families ravaged by poverty, abuse and illness, the obstacles faced here amount to mere inconveniences, and that can make the film seem self-indulgent, despite its friendly subjects and sometimes lighthearted tone. At the end, after listening to declarations of love from mother and daughter, you want to tell Gayle not to make a movie, but to count her blessings.
A version of this review appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page C6 of the New York edition with the headline: Review: Look at Us Now, Mother!, a Documentary of a Family and Its Discontents.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
