Review: In Happily After Ever, a Couples Impossible Choice - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Theater|Review: In Happily After Ever, a Couples Impossible Choice
Review: In Happily After Ever, a Couples Impossible Choice
Molly-Ann Nordin and Jeffrey Brian Adams in Happily After Ever at 59E59 Theaters.
In the off-kilter, candy-colored world of Laura Zlatoss Happily After Ever, at 59E59 Theaters, theres a winking rom-com inevitability to the way girl meets boy: at a bus stop, where they fall for each other instantly. Janet  spacy and shallow but fetching in her dotted mint-green sundress  is a perfect fit for Darren, whos equally shallow but also kind of perky and has that handsome cleft chin.It doesnt seem like a setup for a play about gender identity, but it is. When Janet (Molly-Ann Nordin) becomes pregnant, she and Darren (Jeffrey Brian Adams) expect a cookie-cutter-perfect addition to their retro-photogenic Ward-and-June-Cleaver lives. But their baby is born with ambiguous genitalia, and they suddenly have to think more deeply  about whether and how to resolve that ambiguity. Should the baby be a boy? A girl? Should they wait and let the child decide? Profound love and terrible fear collide.In tone, palette and form, Happily After Ever could hardly be more different from Anna Zieglers Boy, currently at Theater Row, a drama about a child raised as a girl after his penis is sheared off in infancy. What the plays have in common is compassion for parents trying to do the best they can, even if their choices do terrible harm.Not for an instant does Happily After Ever, directed by Sherri Eden Barber for Ricochet Collective, lapse into didacticism. (As at Boy, theres an informative program note for that.) By turns whimsical, campy, hallucinatory and poignant, it nods to scads of classic sitcoms, unfolding in a Technicolor world (grassy set by Rebecca Lord-Surratt, costumes by Stephanie Levin, lights by Megan Dallas Estes) where the men are men and the women are bored at home.There are, naturally, next-door neighbors in the mix  a couple named Dharma (Marlon Meikle) and Jerry (Brennan Lowery)  and this is where the play falls short. Even in this satire, you have to believe the secondary couple are a pair, yet Dharma and Jerry have no chemistry. Because theyre not credible, neither is the social pressure they exert, and the play loses an important dimension.
But the neighbors talking dog, Tommy (Jim Anderson), is a delightfully droll creation  portly, gruff and stuck with a boys name even though shes a girl. Tommy is the one who senses Janets sadness. I detect a scent of grief and confusion with a hint of guilt on the nose, the dog says, nailing it.
Tell me what to do, Janet pleads. Shes hoping to find her way to happily ever after, but nothing in this play is as simple as that.
Category Off Broadway, Comedy, Play Credits Written by Laura Zlatos; Directed by Sherri Eden Barber Cast Featuring Molly-Ann Nordin, Jeffrey Brian Adams, Marlon Meikle, Brennan Lowery and Jim Anderson Preview March 30, 2016 Opened April 6, 2016 Closing Date
Happily After Ever runs through April 16 at 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street; 212-279-4200, 59e59.org. Running time: 1 hour 10 minutes.
A version of this review appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page C8 of the New York edition with the headline: Gender Ambiguity Comes to Cookie-Cutter Retro World.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
