Ah, Those Augusta Memories (of 2015): Jordan Spieth Races to Early Lead - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Golf|Ah, Those Augusta Memories (of 2015): Jordan Spieth Races to Early Lead
Ah, Those Augusta Memories (of 2015): Jordan Spieth Races to Early Lead
Jordan Spieth, right, speaking with this caddie, Michael Greller. I put it up there with one of the best rounds Ive played, Spieth said of his six-under-par 66.
Nostalgia had its moments on the first morning of the Masters on Thursday.Arnold Palmer  frail but still game  made it back to the first tee at Augusta National Golf Club at age 86 even if he did not take a swing, opting to watch from a chair as his fellow honorary starters, Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player, made their ceremonial tee shots.To come here today and to be on the tee, with Arnold being a part of us, it was gratifying and sad, because everything shall pass, Player said more than a little poignantly.Once the first round began, Tom Watson, playing early in his final Masters, birdied the third hole, and he will forever be able to say he held a share of the lead at age 66.But youth soon asserted itself as the defending champion, Jordan Spieth, cranked back the clock  if only by a year  and resumed his mastery of the lush and historic course that made him a star. Continue reading the main story
Spieths deliberate and resourceful opening round of 66 gave him the first-round lead at six under par, with the sun shining and an often firm breeze blowing at the place Augustans simply call the National.
Danny Lee, a 25-year-old from New Zealand who had not played the Masters since missing the cut as an amateur in 2009, was two shots back with a 68. He was tied with Shane Lowry, a bearded 29-year-old Irishman.Im just very pleased with it, Spieth said of his 66. I put it up there with one of the best rounds Ive played.Spieth tied for second in his first Masters, in 2014, and led from wire to wire in 2015, finishing with a record-tying 18-under 270.
Ernie Els of South Africa was six over after only one hole. He needed seven putts to complete the first hole.
Thursdays performance means that he has now gone wire to wire to wire, which is quite a coup given all the life changes and pressures that precocious success can generate. But Spieth, only 22, did not play as if he were lugging the burden of last years breakthrough over the undulating terrain of what is, understandably, his favorite course.After setting a Masters record with 28 birdies in 2015, he produced six in the first round Thursday with nary a bogey to clutter his scorecard or his sense of destiny. His 66 tied him with Jos Mara Olazbal for the best opening-round score by a defending Masters champion.World-class scrambling and putting were required, however, as Spieth escaped with pars from compromised positions on the fourth, the 11th, the 12th, the 14th and the watery par-3 16th, where  in a sequence that summed up his round  he missed the green, made a perilous chip downhill and then coolly holed a midrange putt to save his 3.Spieth shot 64 in the opening round of last years Masters.To be honest, I think the round today, in my opinion, may have been better than the first round last year even though it was two strokes better, Spieth said, citing Thursdays challenging conditions.It plays with your head a little, he said of the wind.It has not been an all-conquering start to 2016 for Spieth, although he might argue that his one missed cut this season has warped some perceptions.
Im still trying to figure out why people think Ive been struggling, he said.On Thursday he appeared to have recovered his putting touch at just the right moment.I feel like my games been trending in the right direction; I just havent gotten scores out of how I felt Id been playing, he said. That normally just comes down to putting. Certainly made a lot of putts today. If I can kind of straighten things out with the iron play, hopefully, well be in business. But I am extremely pleased with that round today. I felt like we stole a few.Not all former major champions could say the same. In one of the more excruciating moments in recent Masters memory, Ernie Els required six putts to complete the first hole, even though the first of those putts was from no more than 3 feet. Els ended up with a quintuple-bogey 9 that was at least an improvement on the sextuple-bogey 10 that he was credited with initially by the Masters live-scoring unit. It was not corrected until Els had finished his round.Rickie Fowler did not have to suffer through anything quite that agonizing, but Fowler, a 27-year-old American who had been in promising form heading into the Masters, double-bogeyed No. 1 and finished with an eight-over 80. That was the second-highest round of Fowlers career in a major, and it made Spieths performance in the swirling conditions look all the more impressive.
Tom Watson, playing in his final Masters, hit on the second fairway on Thursday.
That means everything is working, David Duval said of Spieth on the Golf Channel. Its demanding. If you put a dome over this course, it would be hard to play even with no wind, but it is blowing out there and to get out there without any mistake, it means from tee to green, hes in control of everything he wants.Not bad considering that Spieth cracked the head of his driver Wednesday and had to replace it. But Spieth hardly needed to look far for competition Thursday. His two playing partners  Paul Casey and the amateur Bryson DeChambeau  were under par for the front nine. While DeChambeau eventually fell back to even, Casey did not, producing back-to-back birdies on Nos. 15 and 16.That took him to four under, just a stroke behind Spieth. But Casey bogeyed the 17th to finish with a 69. He is tied for fourth with his fellow Englishmen Justin Rose and Ian Poulter, Soren Kjeldsen of Denmark and Sergio Garca of Spain.There were also significant charges from Spieths generational rivals atop the world rankings  Rory McIlroy and Jason Day  but both eventually ran out of momentum.
McIlroy, trying to complete a career Grand Slam by winning his first Masters, took a low-key, low-volume approach to this tournament in an attempt to reduce the anticipatory load. He made particular inroads on Augustas four par-5s, coming away with birdies on the second and the 15th and an eagle on the 13th. But he bogeyed Nos. 16 and 18 to finish with a 70.Day, the world No. 1, was five under after 14 holes, only to record a bogey on the 15th and a triple bogey on the 16th after his tee shot ended up in the water. Those consecutive 6s knocked him off the leaderboard, and he finished with a 72.So did Phil Mickelson, trying to win a fourth Masters at age 45. The two-time champion Bubba Watson had to settle for a 75, and the 2013 champion, Adam Scott, recorded a 76.Their struggles and winces were quite a contrast with Spieths increasingly familiar look of assurance.Its a knowing; its a confidence, Casey said. Its the way he walks. Its the way he stands. It goes all the way through, from the way he speaks and the way he shakes your hand and deals with people as well. Its wonderful.Gracious comments indeed, but  with three rounds to play and Augustas greens likely to get firmer  certainly no guarantee of wire to wire to wire to wire.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page B8 of the New York edition with the headline: Ah, Those Augusta Memories (of 2015).
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Augusta Presents a Steep Challenge (So Wear the Right Shoes)
Jason Days Long Rise to No. 1 Began With a Mothers Save
Augusta Presents a Steep Challenge (So Wear the Right Shoes)
Jason Days Long Rise to No. 1 Began With a Mothers Save
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
