Louisa: The Extraordinary Life of Mrs. Adams, by Louisa Thomas - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Book Review|Louisa: The Extraordinary Life of Mrs. Adams, by Louisa Thomas
Louisa: The Extraordinary Life of Mrs. Adams, by Louisa Thomas
LOUISAThe Extraordinary Life of Mrs. AdamsBy Louisa Thomas500 pp. Penguin Press. $30.Louisa Catherine Adams lived a life that seems made for the telling. Born in London at the dawning of the American Revolution to a father who was American and a mother who was English, she spent her early years in Europe, first with her family, then as the wife of a diplomat who went on to become president, John Quincy Adams. With  and without  her husband, she traveled the world, hobnobbing with royalty, then settled in America, where she toiled to gain him the presidency. Accomplished, ambitious, socially skilled and keenly observant, she was a formidable woman with an extraordinary life, just as the subtitle of this book promises.But perhaps the most extraordinary thing about her was her penchant for writing. She left behind not only an abundant correspondence, but also a diary, poetry, plays, fiction and  remarkably  three fragmentary autobiographical accounts, one of them detailing her adventure-laden trip from Russia to Paris in the war-torn winter of 1815, the other two recounting her experiences and thoughts. Record of a Life, written when she was 51, offers an idyllic version of her childhood and young adulthood; the cryptically (and somewhat forebodingly) titled Adventures of a Nobody, written when she was 65, chronicles the first two decades of her marriage.Louisa Thomas, a journalist and a former editor at the now defunct Grantland, makes full use of this bounty. Louisa: The Extraordinary Life of Mrs. Adams offers a biography filled with interior knowledge of its subject. Louisa wrestled with her place in the world, questioning her role and importance, clashing with her hot-and-cold husband and grappling with her ambitions, often pouring out her thoughts and feelings on paper. Louisa tracks the course of her inner emotional life, even as it follows the ins and outs of her travels.What emerges is a portrait of a woman who was uneasy with the contours of her world. As a diplomats wife in Europe, she was a republican surrounded by the baubles of monarchies, sometimes a court favorite but always something of an exotic. She was no less exotic as first lady, her European manners proving invaluable for Washington politicking but sometimes leaving her a woman apart. Continue reading the main story
Her marriage often made matters worse; in many ways, Louisa is a portrait of that marriage. She and John Quincy had deep emotional bonds, but they clashed as often as they bonded. Both were strong-willed, stubborn and fiercely intelligent, but in the mans world that was the early 19th century, when it came to battling, he usually won. He determined the whens and wheres of their life, much to her frustration, which became something darker during trips when he insisted that they leave their children behind. Indeed, children were both the joy and the heartbreak of Adamss life. She suffered multiple miscarriages, often due, apparently, to the challenges of 19th-century travel, and outlived a daughter and two sons.
The portrait of Louisa Adams that hangs in the White House.
Some battles required her special talents. She was indispensable in advancing John Quincys bid for the presidency in 1824. Without her social skills  her strategizing, her ability to win people over, her success as a hostess of glittering parties  her awkward husband would never have attained his goal. It was for good reason that Louisa referred to her presidential toiling as my campaigne  and for equally good reason that she bitterly complained of being continually told that I cannot by the Constitution have any share in the public honors of my husband. Louisa makes her political contributions clear, hinting at both the power and the frustrations inherent in the blurred boundaries between the public and the private, the personal and the political.Some women may have been content with such accomplishments, but Louisa wanted more. She relished challenges, as her dash across war-ravaged Europe in the winter of 1815 makes clear. Left behind in Russia when John Quincy went off to negotiate the Treaty of Ghent, Louisa decided, at his invitation, to join him in Paris. Accompanied by a few servants and her 7-year- old son, Charles, she rumbled across battlefields, a witness to the graphic delineations of wars unhallowed march  that speak in thrilling language to the heart, where the tongues of men are silent. Drunken soldiers and lascivious tavern keepers, lost trails and thin ice: Louisa battled them all. Her later account of her trip  Narrative of a Journey From Russia to France  shows her pride in her accomplishment.
But her need for a sense of purpose went beyond such escapades. She struggled not only with her role in life but also with its broader meaning, yearning to be a person who was. Perhaps this need fueled her autobiographical impulses, particularly her second memoir of sorts, Adventures of a Nobody. It may also have deepened her continuing interest in womens rights. I cannot believe that there is any inferiority in the sexes, as far as mind and intellect are concerned, she wrote to her son late in life. Although as a political wife Louisa was cautious, she was true to her convictions, as her writings attest. During the fight over a congressional gag rule in 1841, she wrote a short statement on the right of women to petition Congress. And after reading the abolitionist Sarah Grimks article On the Province of Women, she began a correspondence with Grimk.Here, Louisa is somewhat wanting. With a brief two-page glance at the Grimk letters, and virtually no information on Louisas statement on petitioning, it leaves readers hungry for more. The same is true of her antislavery leanings and her fictional writings; we want more.Such lapses point to one of the books weaknesses. At times it feels too interior. More historical context and outside perspectives  contemporary observations and comparisons with contemporaries  would help readers see Louisa as others saw her and place her in the broader world that helped define her. Was this wife of an antislavery champion unusually frank in grappling with the problem of slavery? Louisa suggests as much. Unlike most white Americans in the 1830s, were told, she tried to face and understand her fears about a war over slavery  a generalization that makes it hard to judge her thoughts as they existed in her own place and time.This isnt to say that Louisa lacks any historical context. Thomas scatters it across the book, maintaining a novelistic tone throughout; indeed, it is a pleasure to read. It is also well grounded in the abundant writings of Louisa, John Quincy and his parents, John and Abigail. Marrying into the demanding and overachieving Adams family was no easy thing. I hourly betrayed my incapacity, she wrote, fearful that she seemed not fit to be the partner of a man, who was evidently to play a great part on the theater of life. Through skillful use of her writings, Louisa shows how she managed this difficult transition, forging a relationship with her formidable in-laws that deepened over time.Perhaps most striking of all, Louisa manages the difficult balance of exploring her life as the partner of a prominent public man without letting him hijack the narrative. Though her relationship with John Quincy is at the heart of the book, she remains front and center. This biography, Thomas tells us, is a history of feelings as well as facts, of questions as well as answers, of doubt as well as certainty. The same might be said of any good biography. But for Louisa Adams, feelings, questions and doubt formed the core dynamic of her life, and Louisa admirably captures that murky mental landscape. In doing so, it fulfills one of her innermost goals: It shows her to be a woman who was.
Joanne Freemans next book, The Field of Blood, explores physical violence in the United States Congress in the decades before the Civil War. She is a professor of history at Yale University.
A version of this review appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page BR1 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Louisa: The Extraordinary Life of Mrs. Adams, by Louisa Thomas.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
American Amnesia, by Jacob S. Hacker and Paul Pierson
Virtual Reality Check: Rating the HTC Vive and the Oculus Rift
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
