Lin-Manuel Miranda: By the Book - 

The star and creator of the musical Hamilton says Things Fall Apart was his favorite book to teach at Hunter College High School: The kids walk out of the classroom as different people.What books are currently on your night stand?The Wayfinders, by Wade Davis; Between Riverside and Crazy, by Stephen Adly Guirgis; and Unabrow, by Una LaMarche.Whats the last great book you read? The last great book I read was catching up on Saga, the graphic novel series. An incredible world in which to get lost.Which writers  novelists, playwrights, critics, journalists, poets  working today do you admire most?Too many to list, really, not that I wont try: Junot Daz, Liz Gilbert, Patrick Rothfuss, Wesley Morris, Michael Chabon, Martn Espada, Sarah Kay. ... I mean, I better quit while Im ahead.
Book Review Newsletter Sign up to receive a preview of each Sundays Book Review, delivered to your inbox every Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for 's products and services.
What genres do you especially enjoy reading? And which do you avoid? Im a biography buff. My favorite book growing up was Chuck Amuck, by Chuck Jones. I think I bought it as a kid because of the included flip-book: flip the pages, and Wile E. Coyote chases the Road Runner down the margins of the page. But its also one of the most beautiful books about the creative process Ive ever read. Grabbing Chernows Hamilton bio rather famously changed my life, but Ive also gotten lost in the works of Doris Kearns Goodwin, Robert Caro. Agassis astounding autobiography and David Foster Wallaces Federer essay turned me into an avid tennis fan. Once Ive spent some time in someone elses life, its hard to shake.What moves you most in a work of literature? Im most in awe of novelists, who move sets, lights, scenery, and act out all the parts in your mind for you. My kind of writing requires collaboration with others to truly ignite. But I think of Dickens, or Cervantes, or Mrquez, or Morrison, and I can describe to you the worlds they paint and inhabit. To engender empathy and create a world using only words is the closest thing we have to magic.What are the best books ever written about the theater? Do you have a personal favorite? Act One, by Moss Hart. Everything Was Possible, by Ted Chapin. The Rent book. Patti LuPones autobiography  bring popcorn for that last one. Also, the Maya Angelou autobio that chronicles her touring with Porgy & Bess  I havent read it since high school, but her evocation of that experience has stayed with me.What kind of reading do you do while writing? How do you read in order to prepare for or inform your own writing?
For Hamilton, the inspiration began with Ron Chernows book, but the research continued with many other indispensable books: his collected writings, edited by Joanne Freeman. Her book Affairs of Honor was very helpful in understanding dueling at the time. The Heartbreak of Aaron Burr, by H. W. Brands, helped unlock Burr for me. I found Joseph Ellis invaluable, as well as Jon Meachams Jefferson bio. I read until I feel like I can say, I know how that feels or I know that person. I have to find my way into each person, and the only way I know how is empathy and research.Do you often read with an eye toward possible adaptation, or was Hamilton an exception? Almost never. I read for fun. Hamilton grabbed me by the scruff of the neck and wouldnt let go.Are there works of fiction that you find capture the theater world particularly well? The Nate series by Tim Federle is a wonderful evocation of what its like to be a theater kid. Highly recommended.Whats the last book that made you cry?My wifes favorite book is Moby-Dick, which I finally read last year. I cried several times  its a force.The last book that made you laugh? The Rap Year Book, by Shea Serrano, is required reading for hip-hop fans and hip-hop newbies alike. Its also the funniest thing Ive read in years.The last book that made you furious? A young adult series that I liked at the beginning but that went down in flames as it went on. Id rather not catch any literary beefs by naming the author.When you were an English teacher at Hunter College High School, what was your favorite book to teach? Things Fall Apart, by Chinua Achebe. Mr. Achebe evokes his world so brilliantly that the last sentence is one of the all-time great gut punches in the history of literature. The kids walk out of the classroom as different people.
Who is your favorite fictional hero or heroine? Your favorite antihero or villain? My favorite fictional heroes are Oscar Wao, Ender Wiggin and Jane Eyre. I dont believe in villains.What kind of reader were you as a child? Which childhood books and authors stick with you most?I read a lot. Louis Sachar, Madeleine LEngle, Roald Dahl, Shel Silverstein, Judy Blume, Beverly Cleary are the patron saints that come to mind.If you had to name one book that made you who you are today, what would it be? We were assigned Nilda, by Nicholasa Mohr, when I was in sixth grade, and it rocked my world  maybe the first book Id read about Puerto Ricans growing up in New York, like me. I still think of it whenever I pass through certain parts of East Harlem  I remember experiencing them through Nilda.If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be? Common Sense, by Thomas Paine  thats the spark to the tinder of our founding.Disappointing, overrated, just not good: What book did you feel you were supposed to like, and didnt? Do you remember the last book you put down without finishing? Ive never gotten through Infinite Jest  Ive literally read every one of Wallaces essays, and enjoy his writing immensely, but Im embarrassed to confess Ive never have the time or patience to finish the big one.Whom would you want to write your life story? I dont know. I suppose I better do some things of note.What do you plan to read next? Well, I picked up Chernows Hamilton bio at random the week before I went on vacation. I just like wandering the bookstore and surprising myself.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page BR8 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Lin-Manuel Miranda.

Stories to help you understand the world  and make the most of it.
Im 29 and I never learned how money works. Its time to fix that.
How to write a cover letter people will actually read
Tips for handling a toxic co-worker (and how to avoid becoming one)
Want to make your own app? There are free classes for that
Five Easy Recipes to Impress Family and Friends (and Dates)

