Framework of Settlement Is Said to Be Reached in Sumner Redstone Competency Case - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Media|Framework of Settlement Is Said to Be Reached in Sumner Redstone Competency Case
Framework of Settlement Is Said to Be Reached in Sumner Redstone Competency Case
A lawsuit by a former companion of Sumner Redstone raised questions about succession planning and the fate of Viacom and CBS, the two media companies he controls.
The framework of a settlement has been reached in the salacious legal battle over the mental competency of the ailing media mogul Sumner M. Redstone, two people with knowledge of the discussions said Thursday.The agreement, which requires approval from a judge, would put an end to the four-month public spectacle that began in November when Manuela Herzer, a former companion and romantic partner of Mr. Redstone, filed a lawsuit challenging Mr. Redstones mental capacity.If signed, the deal would make clear that Mr. Redstone, 92, is now making his own health care decisions, one person said. If that changes, Mr. Redstones daughter would take over the supervision of his health care in conjunction with a family friend who lives in Los Angeles, where Mr. Redstone also lives, this person said.Other terms include detailed plans for Mr. Redstones health care as well as for a payment to Ms. Herzer, which could reach into the tens of millions of dollars, people with knowledge of the deliberations said.The people spoke on the condition of anonymity because the negotiations were incomplete.While the lawsuit concerned Mr. Redstones personal life, it also raised questions about succession planning and the fate of Viacom and CBS, the two media companies he controls.
As the suit progressed in Los Angeles County Superior Court, investors and analysts increased the pressure on Viacom and CBS, questioning whether Mr. Redstone could serve ably in the role of executive chairman. As scrutiny from investors grew, Mr. Redstone ceded those titles in early February, becoming chairman emeritus.Mr. Redstone maintains leadership over the companies through his control of National Amusements, the private theater chain company started by his father.
The lawsuit by Manuela Herzer, a former companion of Sumner Redstone, challenged his mental capacity.
In the suit, Ms. Herzer asserted that Mr. Redstone was not mentally competent in October when he removed her from a directive that would have given her supervision of his health care. On the same day, he removed Ms. Herzer from his personal estate plan in which he had planned to leave her $50 million and his $20 million Los Angeles mansion.Lawyers for Mr. Redstone called the suit meritless and said it was riddled with lies. Ms. Herzer said she was concerned with Mr. Redstones well-being. The trial was scheduled to begin May 6.A settlement would prevent the already messy legal battle from exploding onto the public stage with a trial. The suit included a litany of embarrassing claims about what Ms. Herzer described as Mr. Redstones sexual appetite, his incontinence and his demands to eat steak while on a feeding tube. In the suit, she called him a living ghost.While a judge had ordered that Mr. Redstones medical records remained confidential, evidence introduced during the trial could have been made public.As part of the case, Mr. Redstone underwent a medical examination in January after the judge said that it was necessary so that both sides had all the facts.The evaluation was conducted in late January by Dr. Stephen L. Read, a psychiatrist who had submitted testimony as part of Ms. Herzers suit. Before examining Mr. Redstone, Dr. Read declared that Mr. Redstone lacked the capacity to make health care decisions for himself. After the exam, Mr. Read provided a 37-page report, though most of the details were redacted.
The settlement talks this week prompted the suspension of depositions to be given by Philippe P. Dauman, Viacoms chief executive, and Shari Redstone, Mr. Redstones daughter, two people said.Earlier this week, two people briefed on the matter said Ms. Redstone had been named to a directive that would put her in charge of her fathers health care once he is unable to administer it himself. The family friend who lived in Los Angeles was named as a local health care proxy, one person said.Ms. Redstone and the family friend replaced Mr. Dauman, a longtime confidant of Mr. Redstone, and Thomas Dooley, Viacoms chief operating officer, on the directive.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Settlement Is Said to Be at Hand in Redstone Case.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Shari Redstone Prepares for Battle to Control a Media Empire
In Sumner Redstone Case, Settlement Is Said to Be Discussed
Shari Redstone Prepares for Battle to Control a Media Empire
In Sumner Redstone Case, Settlement Is Said to Be Discussed
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
