Review: Melissa McCarthy Takes Charge in The Boss - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Movies|Review: Melissa McCarthy Takes Charge in The Boss
Review: Melissa McCarthy Takes Charge in The Boss
Melissa McCarthy, right, with Kristen Bell in The Boss.
In her new laugh-in, The Boss, Melissa McCarthy plays Michelle Darnell, an investment guru with a motivational racket along the inspirational lines of Tony Robbins and Suze Orman. Wildly successful, Michelle fills stadiums with true believers who drink her snake oil by the tanker, cheering as she preaches the gospel of personal riches and the power of you you you, even if its really all about her her her. Shes peddling empowerment of a kind, as is this movie, gleefully silly froth that Ms. McCarthy sells with slapstick, you-go-girl uplift and a Kewpie doll smile thats one twitch short of pure madness.
The Times critic Manohla Dargis reviews The Boss.
The movie is funny without being much good; mostly, its another rung on Ms. McCarthys big ladder up. Its a fitful amalgam of bouncy and slack laughs mixed in with some blasts of pure physical comedy and loads of yammering heads. There isnt much filmmaking in it, outside of Ms. McCarthys precision comedic timing and natural screen presence. But, as it turns out, sometimes its pleasurable enough just watching the most unlikely American comedy star since Bill Murray slip into a groove. Part of a sorority that is redefining what funny means in movies, Ms. McCarthy is proving that women can be comedys font, not just the killjoy who shuts off the tap.It may be a while before Ms. McCarthy gets her Groundhog Day, though I like to think that the director Paul Feig (Spy) might one day deliver on that dream. Until then, she will continue to split sides and make bank, including in disposable, enjoyable nonsense like The Boss. Its the second movie that shes starred in directed by her husband, Ben Falcone, following the 2014 Tammy, about a sad sack who, after losing her job, sets off on a two-track inner and outer journey. That did well enough at the box office  Ms. McCarthy has become a Teflon laugh factory  despite being unworthy of her talents and despite the uneasy, unfunny jokes about Tammy, burgers and doughnuts.
Before it settles into a self-actualization fairy tale, Tammy touches on economic struggles that both connect it to the real world and suggest that Ms. McCarthy has ambitions beyond the well-executed pratfall. On its glossy surface, The Boss looks safer than Tammy, partly because Michelle registers as a more familiar, sellable caricature: the 1 percent meanie who needs a Tiny Tim to administer some emotional CPR. Michelle is plenty self-fulfilled when the story opens, at least professionally, as telegraphed by her bombast and an office stuffed with her framed portrait. She has issues, but money is just the gold thats plating her wounded self (or something).Money certainly isnt a problem until she loses her fortune after being busted for insider trading. Written by Ms. McCarthy, Mr. Falcone and Steve Mallory, the movie tracks Michelle as she goes from penthouse to prison, followed by a life-changing stay with her wary former assistant, Claire (Kristen Bell, an appealing second banana), a single mom with a kid (Ella Anderson). There, in their cramped apartment, mother and daughter coax out Michelles inner softy, who, unsurprisingly, is nowhere near as fun as her outer meanie. Mae West once cracked, Dont marry a man to reform him  thats what reform schools are for. The same tends to be true about writing characters.
Michelle works best when she goes full-bore entrepreneurial hellion and hatches a scheme to sell Claires brownies on a mass scale, an enterprise that leads her to recruit members of a girl-scout-like troop and engage in corporate warfare with an amorous foe (Peter Dinklage). Along the way, Ms. McCarthy runs amusingly, at times dementedly, away with the movie, as when Michelle, while offering lingerie advice, plays with Claires (clothed) breasts. In its intimate physicality, this bit suggests a delightfully weird riff on a slap-happy Three Stooges exchange. Except that instead of smacking each others faces, Michelle and Claire are reveling in the comedy of the female breast, a routine that metaphorically whips the lacy, push-up bra off what is, of course, an ordinary body part.
This insistence on ordinary women with ordinary bodies doing ordinary (sometimes extraordinary) things, some of them very funny, cuts to the appeal of a goof like The Boss, which, even at its most familiar, feels different because of whos inspiring the laughter and jostling those breasts. Given this, its worth remembering that slipped among the jokes is a story about two women who struggle with separate existential and economic realities and thrive in mutual dependency. In its arc, the story recalls the 1933 Fannie Hurst novel Imitation of Life (and its filmed adaptations), about a white woman who makes a fortune off her black female employees recipes and likeness. The Boss dodges race and puts a smiley face on greed, but its hard not to think that in celebrating female self-reliance, Ms. McCarthy  star, writer, producer  is saying a little something about women in the entertainment industry.The Boss is rated R (under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for vulgarities and one purse-size gun. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes.
A version of this review appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Girls Just Wanna .
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
