Wolfsburgs Hard Work Earns Upset Over Real Madrid - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Soccer|Wolfsburgs Hard Work Earns Upset Over Real Madrid
Julian Draxlers incisive passes led to both goals in Wolfsburgs 2-0 victory over Real Madrid.
LONDON  Zinedine Zidane is becoming a proper coach now.Last Saturday, his Real Madrid team won a hard-fought victory over Barcelona in the Camp Nou stadium; five days later, Real was beaten close to humiliation at Wolfsburg in the Champions League.Thats football, Zidane reflected after Wednesdays 2-0 loss in Germany. Thats what happens when you dont play with intensity from the start.Along the corridor, in front of another set of microphones, the Wolfsburg coach, Dieter Hecking, was having his say. We fought, we worked, we had the luck and the support to achieve a deserved win, he said. And next week in Madrid we will take every opportunity they give us.Next Tuesday indeed, in the Bernabu stadium, which holds three times the capacity of the Volkswagen Arena, the Madrid superstars get their second chance. Real Madrid, the winner of this tournament and its predecessor an unrivaled 10 times over, versus the Wolves of Lower Saxony who never before reached this quarterfinal stage.Zidane, an imperious player in his era and the winner of every trophy in the sport, started managerial life at the top with Real. Hecking, a relatively unsung player in Hanover and Braunschweig, worked his way up through a coaching apprenticeship that began 16 years ago with the amateur club SC Verl.
Players, of course, win or lose matches. The coaches can only mentor them. And clearly, Real Madrid does not have the monopoly on all the talents in the game, or even all the talents on the field in Wolfsburg on Wednesday night.Julian Draxler, Maximilian Arnold and Andr Schrrle are not the household names that Cristiano Ronaldo, Karim Benzema and Gareth Bale are paid to be. But on Wednesday, the young Wolves eclipsed the illustrious Madridistas.Bruno Henrique, a Brazilian unknown even in Germany until this week, when Hecking picked him to play on the right wing, was so much better than Madrids Brazilian left back Marcelo that it was embarrassing at times.I worked hard to get into the starting eleven, Bruno Henrique said. I came here from Brazil in the winter, and now Ive played against Real Madrid. Im really delighted.The Brazilians are everywhere. Another one, Wolfsburgs central defender Naldo, was not expected to play again this season after undergoing shoulder surgery early in March. It was Naldos, and Coach Heckings, little secret that he was fit and ready to come back against Ronaldo and Co. in the Volkswagen Arena.So many one-on-one battles won and lost. Such planning and surprises from the German club. And an underbelly of complacency, possibly of fatigue, after the effort spent by Real in the Camp Nou last Saturday, betrayed Madrid.It didnt start that way. After barely 70 seconds, Real had the ball in Wolfsburgs net, but Ronaldo was adjudged marginally offside. He did not agree, of course, and wagged a disapproving finger at the linesman for waving his flag.No matter, we thought. Ronaldos chances would come again. And they did, but Diego Benaglia, the goalkeeper who also was rushed back after injury, saved everything that Ronaldo and Benzema struck at him, often with his legs.
That said, the telling statistic against Real was that its celebrated forward line managed to put just three of 21 scoring opportunities on target.From less than half that number, Wolfsburg scored twice and, again, should have had at least one more goal.Draxler was at the heart of most things. His form in the Bundesliga has been inconsistent since his heralded move from Schalke last summer to replace Kevin De Bruyne, the Belgian now with Manchester City.Draxler, 22, would be a regular on the German national team if he married industry with art the way he did Wednesday. He ran six miles over the course of the game; he tormented Madrids right back Danilo, and his wonderfully incisive passes led to both goals.Reals woeful defending did the rest. The opening goal in the 18th minute was a Ricardo Rodrguez penalty shot following the referees decision that Casemiro fouled Schrrle from behind.After countless replays, no one could verify whether Casemiro made contact or Schrrle simply lost his footing. The Madrid defenders Pepe, Sergio Ramos and Marcelo were bystanders.Ditto for the second goal. Draxlers low cross fed Henrique, the winger was too quick for Marcelo, and Arnold scored, unmarked, from six yards.Easy goals, prompted by passes that Draxler makes look effortless. But these attributes were augmented by Madrids navet and by Wolfsburgs hunger to run beyond anything that Real seemed prepared to do.
As a child, I dreamed of this, Arnold, 21, had said before the game. Zinedine Zidane was a role model of mine  such an elegant player.An elegant player and, when the chips were down, a demonically hard worker, too. Zidanes other attribute, his last act on a world stage, was his notorious head-butt into the chest of Marco Materazzi during the 2006 World Cup final between France and Italy.On Wednesday, Zidanes most irresponsible player, Marcelo, got away with a head-butt of his own. Marcelo first kicked at Arnold with a sly backheel, then he butted the German in the chest and then disgracefully fell to the ground, pretending to have been hit in the head.The Italian referee Gianluca Rocchi got everything wrong. He yellow carded Arnold, booked Bale as well for pushing Arnold in the melee, and let Marcelo off unpunished.Wolfsburg, following orders to contain and attack, is halfway to the shock of the round. It needs to finish the job in Madrid. Continue reading the main story
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
