9 Strokes, Then What? For Ernie Els, On to 2nd Hole - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Golf|9 Strokes, Then What? For Ernie Els, On to 2nd Hole
9 Strokes, Then What? For Ernie Els, On to 2nd Hole
Ernie Els took a 9 on the par-4 first hole at Augusta National, the highest score on the hole in the Masters 80-year history. He finished with an eight-over 80.
AUGUSTA, Ga.  The first hole at Augusta National, a par 4 measuring 445 yards, requires players to hit from an elevated tee to a fairway that breaks right to left, then hit their second shots to an elevated green. It calls to mind a roller coaster, and it made a few stomachs drop during the opening round of the Masters.No one came away from the hole feeling sicker than Ernie Els, a runner-up in 2000 and 2004. He missed the green with his second shot, chipped to 3 feet and took six putts to find the hole. His 9 was the highest score on the hole in the tournaments 80-year history. Four players  Olin Browne, Billy Casper, Scott Simpson and Jeev Milkha Singh  had recorded 8s.After signing for an eight-over 80, Els described his problem as a case of the yips.I couldnt get the putter back, he said, adding: Its something thats a short up there somewhere. You just cant do what you normally do. Its unexplainable. A lot of people have stopped playing the game after getting that feeling.Els, a four-time major winner, desperately wants to win this tournament. At 46, he knows his window is closing. For 235 days, the amount of time between the end of the P.G.A. Championship and the start of the Masters, Els had waited for his chance. After the first hole, he was essentially out of it.
Ernie Els 7 putted the first hole, it's excruciating to watch pic.twitter.com/0SJIyncF9k
I dont know how I stayed out there, he said. You love the game. Youve got respect for the tournament and so forth. He added: Very difficult. Im not sure where Im going from here. Continue reading the main story
AMATEUR IMPRESSES SPIETH Bryson DeChambeau and his coach, Mike Schy, have spent the past 10 years with their heads together, testing theories about the golf swing in a tent on a public course surrounded by farmland in Californias San Joaquin Valley. For much of that time, they have operated in a vacuum, isolated both geographically and by the grandeur of their ideas about transforming the game.
After so many years of a relatively quiet coexistence, the pair was part of a wonderfully chaotic tableau Thursday, when DeChambeau made his Masters debut as an amateur in a grouping that included the defending champion, Jordan Spieth, and Paul Casey.Schy required his own course management strategy to maneuver around the thousands of patrons following the group so that he could monitor DeChambeaus swings with his single-length set of irons and wedges.I knew today was going to be a mess trying to watch, said Schy, who was able to manage, thanks to the advice he received from the wife of Bill Glasson, a Fresno, Calif., native who won seven times on the P.G.A. Tour.
From left, the honorary starters, Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer and Gary Player, at the ceremonial tee-off on Thursday to start the first round of the Masters.
She told Schy to stay a half-a-hole ahead of the players, and using that strategy, Schy saw most of DeChambeaus swings as he shot an even-par 72. Spieth took the early lead with a 66 and Casey posted a 69.He seemed really comfortable out there, Schy said, and it certainly appeared so. On the par-3 sixth, DeChambeau stepped up and knocked in a par putt while the patrons were still cheering for the 10-foot birdie that Spieth had drained moments earlier.Something Ill never forget, and especially playing with Spieth, and him shooting 66, DeChambeau said. That was a fun day to watch him do that and make some putts out there.DeChambeau, 22, who will turn pro after this event, was more crisp from tee to green than Spieth, but could not match his putting prowess.We were walking up 18, and he said, I dont know what it is about this place, I just love putting here, DeChambeau said, adding, I was quite impressed with that.
Spieth, in turn, said he marveled at DeChambeaus ball-striking.Watch out for him, Spieth said. In all honesty, it was really impressive watching his game today.He added: I felt like he was a bit off on the greens and still was able to shoot even par. Thats really, really impressive in your first round here.PALMER THRILLS PATRONS Arnold Palmer walked out of the Augusta National clubhouse and gingerly stepped into a waiting golf cart for the short trip to the first tee for the ceremonial first shots.The cart moved slowly so the 86-year-old Palmer could connect with the patrons lining the cart path from the clubhouse. He made eye contact with people in the crowd and gave the thumbs-up signal with both hands.Once he arrived at the tee, Palmer was helped into a chair, where he watched Gary Player, 80, and Jack Nicklaus, 76, hit. It was the first year since Palmer became an honorary starter in 2007 that he did not take a swing. He also did not join Player and Nicklaus afterward in the interview room.
Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
At the champions dinner on Tuesday, Nicklaus said he told Palmer that if he wanted to participate in the ceremonial first shots, he could putt a ball off the tee and the patrons would be thrilled.Nicklaus was not surprised when Palmer decided to pass.Arnolds balance is not good, Nicklaus said, and thats what they were worried about.It did not matter that Palmer remained seated.I think that everybody was happy to see Arnold out on the tee, Nicklaus said. I think Arnold was happy to be on the tee.
Player gave voice to what many patrons seemed to be thinking when he said, It was gratifying and sad because everything shall pass. GOOD DAY FOR WESTWOOD AND HIS HORSE The last European to win the Masters was Jos Mara Olazbal of Spain in 1999.Were all trying hard, Lee Westwood of England, who opened with a one-under 71, said.Westwood has come as close as anybody else, with three top-eight finishes in his past four starts here.With the wind gusting to 25 miles per hour, his course knowledge helped mightily.When the conditions are testy, you can start hitting it in the wrong place regularly and just not be able to keep a round going, he said.While Westwood was playing the second nine, Augusta Kate, a 5-year-old mare owned by a group of which he is a part, raced in the Grand National, a prestigious steeplechase event in Liverpool, England.The horse, which won two starts and finished seventh while racing geldings in her most recent race, finished second.Westwood, who was informed of the result after he came off the course, said, Good run, but obviously we would have liked to win, but lost by half a length.How did the horse get her name? Its a long story, he said.Does Augusta National figure into the name? Yeah, Westwood said, without elaborating.
A report in the golf roundup on April 8 about Arnold Palmers not participating in the ceremonial first tee shot at the Masters misidentified, in some copies, one of the golfers who appeared in the interview room after the ceremony. Along with Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player was there  not Palmer.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: 9 Strokes, Then What? For Els, On to 2nd Hole.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Augusta Presents a Steep Challenge (So Wear the Right Shoes)
Jason Days Long Rise to No. 1 Began With a Mothers Save
Tiger Woods Is Missing, but So Is Dominance in Golf
Jordan Spieth, Humbly, Gets Ready to Defend Masters Crown
Augusta Presents a Steep Challenge (So Wear the Right Shoes)
Jason Days Long Rise to No. 1 Began With a Mothers Save
Tiger Woods Is Missing, but So Is Dominance in Golf
Jordan Spieth, Humbly, Gets Ready to Defend Masters Crown
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
