The Enduring Power of Jaromir Jagr - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
After 22 years and eight teams, the Panthers Jagr is bound for another playoff appearance and seems unlikely to retire any time soon.
The day the Florida Panthers traded for Jaromir Jagr last year, some players told the teams strength and conditioning coach, Tommy Powers, that his free nights were over. Powers wondered what they meant, until Jagr explained it later.He basically came to me and said, I need you 24/7  can you give that? Powers said. At first, I was like, Uh, I kind of want to have a life.Jagrs text messages and phone calls come at all hours. They are not requests so much as implied demands, but Jagr and Powers have reached an understanding in their second season together. Jagr obeys his impulses, yielding to his bodys needs, but tries to give Powers as much notice as possible.If, on a Saturday night, Jagr feels like donning ankle weights and a 35-pound vest to punish himself in 30-second skating intervals, then wants to cool down by ripping one-timers from different spots on the ice, Powers will cancel his plans or bring along his girlfriend or brothers. Continue reading the main story
If Jagr anticipates wanting to tow Powers with a rope while running sprints at 10:30 p.m. in a hallway of the teams hotel, Jagr will notify him during the afternoon. Continue reading the main story
Floridas Jaromir Jagr at practice in March with a group of teammates, including Reilly Smith (18), who was born in 1991, the year after Jagr started playing in the N.H.L.
If I want to practice, I want to be mentally ready for it, Jagr said. I want to do it on my own, not because someone tells me, Oh, lets practice at 9 oclock in the morning. What if I dont feel right at 9 oclock in the morning? I do what I need to do when I need to do it.That philosophy has defined Jagr across all of his incarnations, from mullet-sporting wunderkind to two-time Stanley Cup champion to the N.H.L.s most valuable player to brooding malcontent to sage veteran to his current standing, as the most fascinating man in hockey.
Jagr, 44, leads the league in years on earth  by four. Entering Saturdays regular-season finale, he also leads the Atlantic Division champion Panthers, his eighth N.H.L. team, in points (65) and ranks second in goals (27).Across more than 2,000 professional games in 22 seasons in the N.H.L. and three more in the Kontinental Hockey League in Russia, Jagr has focused on hockey pursuits that are intertwined: chasing excellence while suppressing fear.At age 7, in his native Czechoslovakia, Jagr started doing 1,000 squats a day. He trains while others sleep to ward off guilt, and he wards off guilt so he can play, and he plays because he loves hockey, and he loves it because it is fun. When it stops being fun and starts being drudgery, Jagr said, he will quit.
Only one member of the 1990 N.H.L. Draft Class is still playing: Jaromir Jagr, who remains as much a marvel at 44 as he was 26 years ago, at 18. Heres a look at every player from that draft:
Im not a guy whos going to run some race and, before I finish, think how Im going to celebrate, Jagr said in an interview early last month at the Panthers practice complex. First, I want to finish the race, win it, then think how Im going to celebrate. When you start thinking before its over, you might not win it.For hockey to remain fun, for it to continue sustaining him in his fifth decade, Jagr must enjoy more than just the process. A five-time N.H.L. scoring champion, he does not have the luxury of aging as might a defenseman, who can focus on his defense to cloak a decline in offensive production.Last week, Jagr became the oldest N.H.L. player to record 60 points in a season. He is invigorated by playing on a line with the superlative forwards Aleksander Barkov and Jonathan Huberdeau, whose combined age (42) is less than his. He humbles players half his age because many of the attributes that captivated the league a quarter-century ago  magnetic puck control, immovable net presence, funky wrist shot  have endured.But being surrounded by all that youth  all those players who, he insisted, are better than he is  has had a deeper effect.Ever attuned to his strengths and, increasingly, his limitations, Jagr is more aware now of who he is, as a player and a person. He modifies his preparation to account for evolving roles, fluctuating ice time and his own expectations.
Jagr at the 1990 N.H.L. draft, left, when he was selected fifth over all by the Pittsburgh Penguins. At right, his All-Star card from 1991-92, his second season.
He says he does not think about his legacy, his retirement or the legends he passes on the leagues scoring lists. He says he does not think about what was or what will be. He cares about what is  about living hockey, all day, every day. And that gives him joy.
The best way to describe Jaromir, Panthers forward Jussi Jokinen said, is that the way some people love their kids, thats how he loves the game.Showing How Its DoneWhen Jagr mulls a response, his face folds like origami. His eyebrows crinkle, his lips crease and his head tilts. A guttural sound emanates from the depths of him, almost like a stifled cough, and then there it is: The synapses fire, he begins to speak, and good luck stopping him.When I was younger and I was one of the best in the world, Jagr said, pausing to correct himself. Or, the best in the world.Go on.Every time I played a game, I didnt really play against a team, he continued. I played against a defenseman, the other teams best defenseman. Every time I stepped on the ice, that guy was there. Continue reading the main story
Jagr, center, in Florida last month. The best way to describe Jaromir, his teammate Jussi Jokinen said, is that the way some people love their kids, thats how he loves the game.
Usually that defenseman had to be big and sturdy so he could muscle up against Jagr, whose 6-foot-3, 245-pound frame projected power but belied grace, quickness and finesse. And usually Jagr would charge right past that defenseman, deking him and others, and bull toward the net off the right wing.Younger fans have grown up enraptured by the fastest, most skilled version of the N.H.L., blessed with Alex Ovechkins wizardry, Jonathan Toewss elegance and Sidney Crosbys genius, but they missed out on seeing Jagr at his apex.With his brown mane billowing from the back of his helmet  a look that Montreal defenseman P. K. Subban honored at this seasons All-Star Game by donning a long, scraggly wig in the Breakaway Challenge  Jagr scored the type of goals that might well have inspired surges of boys named Jaromir nine months later. Type Jagr Stanley Cup 1992 into YouTube and see one of the goals yourself.
You had to understand how to play against him, said the former N.H.L. defenseman Darryl Sydor, who was drafted two spots behind Jagr in the first round in 1990 and is now an assistant coach for the Minnesota Wild. He wanted you to be on his back because he uses that reach. You had to be quicker; you had to get inside of him. But if he felt you on a certain side, he would tight turn and lose you.Michael Stewart, who was taken by the Rangers in the first round in 1990, eight spots after Jagr went fifth over all to the Pittsburgh Penguins, recalled with a laugh his first encounter with Jagr, a preseason game early in their careers. Jagr carried the puck into the Rangers zone, but Stewart, a solid 6-foot-3 defenseman, had him lined up for a check.
Jagr, center, in 1995, when he played for Pittsburgh, one of eight teams he has played for in his 22 years in the N.H.L.
Im like, This is going to be awesome, Stewart said. All those quick little things go through your head: Im going to light him up.And I got a hold of him, and I was going to finish him in the glass as hard as I could, Stewart continued. He dragged me from the hash marks all the way to the net with the puck on his stick. It was so humbling. Im big, strong, and with one hand he held me off and just dragged me all the way to Mike Richter playing in net.This is how Jagr still plays, exploiting that long reach and substantial posterior  What are you going to do when he sticks that thing in your face? said Troy Loney, a former Penguins teammate  to keep the puck. Against Philadelphia on March 12, Jagr entered the Flyers zone and then turned his back to defenseman Nick Schultz, pushing him toward the net while controlling the puck, before passing to the trailing Huberdeau for a goal.In deference to Huberdeau and Barkov, Jagr has adapted his style to complement his linemates. Instead of deking through a team as he once did, he tries drawing defenders toward him and then passing to the open man.I used to say, Guys, just give me the puck, and Im going to score, Jagr said. I give it to them because I know they can do it and they can do it better than me. Its a lot easier for me. Continue reading the main story
Jagr sitting on the boards during a game last month against the Toronto Maple Leafs.
His ice time has waned over the years, to 17 minutes a game this season for Florida from about 25 a game earlier in his career, when he regularly double-shifted. He trained for those grueling games, for outlasting that defenseman, by sprinting on an exercise bike for a minute, then resting, again and again until the guilt abated.
I always wanted to make sure Im in better shape than the guy I played against, Jagr said. I knew when the third period came, there was no way they could keep up with me because I practiced this way. I was the same the last minute as I was the first minute. But you cannot do it the same way anymore. You have to know how you play, how the coach uses you.Florida Coach Gerard Gallant deploys Jagr in short shifts, lasting roughly 30 to 40 seconds. He has also told Jagr to take a day off when he wants to. That day off has yet to come. When Jagr gets tired  and this does happen, he said  he does not rest.You think he would be beat up and tired, but he loves back-to-back games, said Powers, the teams strength and conditioning coach. He just needs to keep going. If he keeps pushing, pushing, pushing, his body doesnt have time to reset and recover.Because Jagr loiters in front of the net more than before, positioning himself for screens and rebounds, he concentrates on drills that improve his reaction time and strengthen his core. A specialty is placing an eight-pound medicine ball a few inches from a padded wall and then whacking away at it with his stick. Jagr loves this workout so much that he has had Powers carry the ball and stick onto the team plane, keeping them separate from the gear going straight to the arena, to be used later at the hotel.
The puck with which Jagr earned his 1,851st regular season point, moving him into third place among the N.H.L.s all-time career points leaders.
To keep up with the games faster pace, Jagr has shaved 15 pounds from his frame. After practice he often skates alone, darting the length of the ice and back until he thinks he should stop.Hes a psycho, Panthers forward Vincent Trocheck, 22, said, in an unbelievable way.As proof, perhaps, consider this episode from a practice this season. Jagr, embarrassed that Aaron Ekblad had stolen the puck by elevating Jagrs stick, barged into the weight room afterward and declared, Nobody will ever take the puck off my stick again. So he and Powers grabbed one of Barkovs sticks and attached it to a resistance machine, fashioning a contraption that allowed Jagr to fend off that lifting motion.Its not a show for the people that hes doing it, said Jiri Hrdina, a former teammate in Pittsburgh. He really believes thats the thing he needs to do.Jagr keeps a softball on the bench to rub over his hamstring and gluteal muscles to keep them loose between shifts. He has taken to dunking his head in a cold tub after each period. He immerses himself from the neck down in a Cryo Cabin, a recovery device cooled to minus-230 degrees Fahrenheit, after which he emerges, shivering and flexing.
His teammates howl, but they do the same things  well, some of them  because Jagr does. Players who once adhered to more traditional strength and conditioning regimens now shoot medicine balls or slip on weight vests or perform single-leg squats atop a box. Continue reading the main story
Jagrs training regimen is relentless, astounding players half his age. Hes a psycho, Panthers forward Vincent Trocheck, 22, said, in an unbelievable way.
Most kids think theyre in good shape doing what they need to do, but then they see this happen and they realize, Oops, I better pick it up, said Panthers General Manager Dale Tallon, who acquired Jagr from the Devils in February 2015. Even when hes not here, well still be sending that message: This is what this guy did, and this is how you prolong your career and better yourself. Its going to have an impact on our team for a while.Built to OutlastAll these years later, a memory that persists for Bryan Trottier, now 59, is not so much how Jagr practiced English when they played together on the Penguins in the early 1990s  in part by watching MTV, entering the locker room some days reciting Mtley Cre and Warrant lyrics  but what he chose to communicate with it.At some point as a rookie, when Jagr was 18, he told Trottier in fractured English that he hoped to still be playing when he was 50. Sizing him up, Trottier told Jagr, If you stay healthy, young man, you could.Over the last 25 years, Jagr has largely avoided the major injuries that can curtail or doom careers, his frame suited for maintaining productivity across different eras. He credits his durability, in part, to achieving a spiritual balance; he and Powers speak often about opening chakras. He draws energy not only from food and sleep, he said, but also from inner peace.Once you get too excited, too high, too low, its like a brake in your car, Jagr said, adding: Youre in traffic, you go fast, but youre still going to brake when someones going to pass you. And you spend so much gas than the guys who are going slow.Excluding this season, and the two others shortened significantly by lockouts, he has averaged 77 games. With one game to go, he has played 78.This season he blew past Brett Hull and Marcel Dionne to reach third on the regular-season career goal list, with 749 as of Friday. On March 7, he surpassed Gordie Howe in points, moving into third, where he sits with 1,867.
After his assist in that game, an overtime loss at home against the Boston Bruins, Jagr answered a few questions about the milestone, grabbed Barkov and Huberdeau to pose for a photo with the puck, and then retreated into the weight room.He rode the bike and walloped the medicine ball and towed Powers. He explained to the new acquisition Jiri Hudler the benefits of resistance sprinting. He listened to Barkov say that if Jagr returned next season and played on his line, Jagr would smash more records. By the time he left the arena, it was nearly 1 a.m.Strange as it seems, this will all end at some point. It does for everyone, and when it does for Jagr  be it at 45, or 55 or beyond  he will think about what comes next, but not a moment before. Asked about his postcareer plans, Jagr cut off the question midsentence and grinned.The body knows a lot more than you do, he said. Something always puts you somewhere where you should be.
An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated the season of the Jaromir Jagr hockey card shown. It was from his second season, not his rookie season.
A version of this article appears in print on April 9, 2016, on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Hes a Psycho .
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
For One Member of Famed N.H.L. Class, Reality Took a Different Path
Wayne Gretzky Has a Few Points to Make About a Decline in Scoring and Creativity
For One Member of Famed N.H.L. Class, Reality Took a Different Path
Wayne Gretzky Has a Few Points to Make About a Decline in Scoring and Creativity
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
