Video Review: A Redesigned Malibu You Can Take to the Beach - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
New Cars|Video Review: A Redesigned Malibu You Can Take to the Beach
Video Review: A Redesigned Malibu You Can Take to the Beach
Chevy engineers pretty much nailed the driving dynamics, and the svelte lines make it easy to mistake this ninth-generation Malibu for an upmarket brand.
When it comes to exclusive addresses, Malibu ranks high in the public imagination. But when it comes to cars, Chevrolets namesake sedan is aimed squarely at the middle class. Prices start at $22,500 for this midsize sedan that is attractive enough not to look out of place in the California oceanside town.Chevy has been pushing this message hard, with ads that feature real people  not actors, that is  who wonder if a Malibu is a BMW, Lexus or Acura when the logos have been removed. One woman places the price point in the $80,000 bracket. Yes, my eyes rolled too.So darned if during my week with the Malibu, a couple of people didnt ask if it was a new Audi or Lexus. True, the Malibu has graceful lines, but goodness gracious, thats a gold Chevy bow tie on the grille.Malibu competes in an unforgiving segment against the Honda Accord, Nissan Altima, Toyota Camry, Ford Fusion, Kia Optima and Hyundai Sonata. Complicating matters are changing consumer tastes, away from the traditional family sedan in favor of sport utility vehicles and crossovers. For the first time last year, these outsold sedans in the United States.The outgoing Malibu, with its tight back seat and awkward sheet metal, stumbled against such market forces.
In its new version, the Malibu comes with three engine types  a hybrid powertrain available this spring, a 1.5-liter turbocharged 4-cylinder and a two-liter turbo 4. I tested the two-liter version, whose 250 horsepower and 258 pound-feet of torque provide plenty of power, considering that the Malibu has shed some 300 pounds. The larger engine gets eight speeds (the 1.5-liter has six). Shifting manually, using a button atop the gear selector, is awkward at best.The spring from 0 to 60 in 6.3 seconds keeps things entertaining. The 2-liter engine is smooth and powerful but its government rating of 26 miles per gallon (which I achieved) is five m.p.g. fewer than the rating for the 1.5-liter version. For those owners who understand that cheap gas wont be around forever, the hybrid is rated at 46 m.p.g.Malibus chassis structure is commendably rigid. There is no adjustable suspension. No sport or comfort mode, either. None are needed; the Chevy engineers finessed an excellent balance.The Premier model tested swells to $34,285 with adaptive cruise control, automatic braking with pedestrian detection and a pretty decent Bose sound system. It also has heated and vented leather chairs. The only major option missing is a $1,270 sunroof. With a name like Malibu, shouldnt that be standard?Various interior color palettes change the character of the cabin, so shop selectively. Nicely detailed and competitive in class, a Malibus cabin will not be confused with an Audis. Plastics lack a premium brands depth and the woodlike trim is clearly from an industrial plant, not a natural one.Malibus back seat is much more competitive now; its impressive what an additional 1.3 inches of legroom will do. No heated cushions for those riding in back, though. The trunk is large, and with 60-40 split rear seats families can take everything needed for a full day at the beach.Its apparent that General Motors listened to owners, and perhaps more important, those who did not buy the outgoing model. The biggest obstacle keeping this svelte sedan from gaining market share is simple brand loyalty to other automakers. Wise shoppers will surf into a Chevy store to check one out. Malibu has hit high tide in a fiercely battled segment.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: A Redesigned Chevy Malibu You Can Take to the Beach.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Video Review: Hyundai Santa Fes Updates Deserve a Look
Video Review: Mercedes C300 Coupe Subtracts Doors, Adds Passion
Video Review: VW Dresses Up the Alltrack for the Hard Road
Video Review: With Genesis, Hyundai Brings a New Luxury Brand to Town
Video Review: With Many Options, Ford Explorer Rides High
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
