Teaser Gives a Peek at Rogue One: A Star Wars Story - 

Movies|Teaser Gives a Peek at Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Teaser Gives a Peek at Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
ROGUE ONE: A STAR WARS STORY Official Teaser Trailer Video by Star Wars
By now, you might think that every portion of the canonical Star Wars time line has been explored in cinema: the classic trilogy (A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi); the prequels (The Phantom Menance and others best left unmentioned) and a new continuing narrative set forth in last years blockbuster The Force Awakens.But wrong you would be, as Yoda might say: the Jedi knights at Lucasfilm (and their Imperial masters at parent company Disney) have found an uncharted sliver of chronology to exploit in the latest Star Wars film, Rogue One, which takes place after the prequels and before the main action of A New Hope, and which will be released on Dec. 16.
Felicity Jones in the teaser for Rogue One: A Star Wars Story.
A teaser trailer for Rogue One, which bears the subtitle A Star Wars Story and is directed by Gareth Edwards (Monsters, Godzilla) was released on Thursday. Following the model of the promotional campaign for The Force Awakens, it offers only brief glimpses of characters and settings, but seems to suggest the story of Jyn Erso (Felicity Jones), a rare female protagonist in this science-fiction universe and a reckless loner caught between the all-powerful Empire and an emerging Rebellion.(Just to remove any trace of ambiguity, we hear Ms. Joness character utter the instantly classic line, This is a rebellion, isnt it? I rebel.)Other actors shown fleetingly in the Rogue One teaser include Diego Luna, Ben Mendelsohn and Forest Whitaker. But we suspect the Star Wars faithful were just as excited to see Stormtroopers, AT-AT walkers and the character of Mon Mothma, a Rebel leader who often figures prominently in battles against the Death Star.
A scene from the teaser for Rogue One: A Star Wars Story.
Expect more trailers  and a trash compactor full of Internet speculation  to follow between now and December, and may the Force be with you. Continue reading the main story


