Egon Schiele Works to Be Returned to Descendant of Holocaust Victim - The New York Times
Egon Schiele Works to Be Returned to Descendant of Holocaust Victim
Egon Schiele Works to Be Returned to Descendant of Holocaust Victim
PhotoThe Austrian culture minister, Josef Ostermayer, and Elisabeth Leopold, widow of art collector Rudolf Leopold, with works by Egon Schiele at the Leopold Museum in Vienna.Credit Joe Klamar/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images
Two works by the Austrian painter Egon Schiele will be returned to a descendant of the paintings former owner, Karl Maylnder, a Jewish collector who was deported from Austria and killed during the Holocaust.
The restitution was announced on Thursday by the Austrian culture minister, Josef Ostermayer, at a news conference at the Leopold Museum in Vienna, which owns the works.
In 2010 a government commission recommended that the Leopold give five Schiele watercolors from its collection to one of Mr. Maylnders heirs. The museum was able to ignore the ruling because it is not primarily state-funded. The deal brokered by the Austrian culture ministry with the museum will allow three of the artworks named by the commission to remain in the museums collection.
In January of this year the Israelitische Kultusgemeinde Wien, a religious advocacy group that was involved in the case, began what their website refers to as a P.R. offensive to force the question of the paintings restitution forward.
The museum has been involved in restitution cases before: In 2010 the Leopold agreed to pay $19 million to the descendants of Lea Bondi Jaray, a midcentury Jewish gallerist whose Schiele painting Portrait of Wally was seized by the Nazis and later entered the Leopolds collection. The museum was allowed to keep the painting as part of the settlement.
In a statement provided by a spokesman, the Leopold director, Hans-Peter Wipplinger, said a central task of the museum was to confront the past and remember the atrocities of the Nazi regime.
Arts and Antiquities Looting, Holocaust and the Nazi Era, Leopold Museum, Museums, Schiele, Egon, Vienna (Austria)
Cairo Gallery Forced to Shut After Building Collapse
ArtsBeat, a blog about arts and culture, has been archived.
'Better Call Saul''Blindspot''Boardwalk Empire''Broadchurch''Downton Abbey''Empire''Fargo''Fear the Walking Dead''Game of Thrones''Girls''Gotham''Halt and Catch Fire''Hannibal''Homeland''House of Cards''I Am Cait''Justified''Mad Men''Masters of Sex''Narcos'
'Orange Is the New Black''Orphan Black''Outlander''Penny Dreadful''Poldark''Scream Queens''Silicon Valley''Sleepy Hollow''The Affair''The Americans''The Good Wife''The Knick''The Leftovers''The Newsroom''The Walking Dead''True Blood''True Detective''Veep''Wolf Hall'
