As Graft Cases in Chile Multiply, a Gag Law Angers Journalists - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Americas|As Graft Cases in Chile Multiply, a Gag Law Angers Journalists
As Graft Cases in Chile Multiply, a Gag Law Angers Journalists
SANTIAGO, Chile  Prosecutors and investigative reporters in Chile have for more than a year been exposing an intricate web of illegal campaign contributions, bribery and corruption, embarrassing top business executives and politicians, including members of Congress and the presidents family.The revelations, reported by an emboldened news media and fueled by the leaking of names and documents, prompted the Senate this week to approve a bill that would, among other things, punish anyone who makes public information about current judicial investigations, with up to 541 days in prison.Journalists are calling it a gag law that would restrict the publics freedom of information at a time when the countrys ruling elite are being shamed.Why was this never discussed before, when reporters got hold of legal files related to other types of criminals? said Javiera Olivares, the president of the Journalists Association in Chile. These peoples rights are also affected, but this law is approved when it is the powerful who are under scrutiny.The string of scandals came to light in late 2014, when investigators began unraveling a system of fake invoices used by one of Chiles largest financial holding companies, the Penta Group, to direct funds to the right-wing U.D.I. Partys campaign coffers, evading taxes along the way.
This led to related inquiries into the mining giant SQM, which controls most of Chiles lithium production. SQM was privatized during the rule of Augusto Pinochet, whose dictatorship of Chile lasted from 1973 to 1990, and sold to the dictators former son-in-law, Julio Ponce Lerou, who has run the company ever since. Investigators found that for years SQM has financed the campaigns of presidential candidates from parties across the political spectrum, including most in the center-left New Majority coalition now in power.Prosecutors are investigating more than 190 business executives, politicians and a vast array of intermediaries charged with tax evasion, fraud, issuing false invoices, money laundering and bribery.
Pablo Longueira, a former finance minister, in 2013, when he was a presidential candidate for the U.D.I. Party. Mr. Longueira resigned from his party last month.
More accusations are expected in the coming weeks, including charges against Laurence Golborne, a U.D.I. presidential candidate in 2013 who gained fame when he was minister of mining during the rescue of 33 Chilean miners in 2010. Prosecutors have said he would be charged soon with tax fraud in connection with campaign funds from Penta.Prosecutors have also said they are looking at leaders of President Michelle Bachelets New Majority coalition and the two sons of the leader of the Christian Democratic Party, Senator Jorge Pizarro, who stepped down as party chief last weekend. His sons were found to have issued 11 invoices to SQM totaling 45 million pesos, or about $66,000.So far, Mr. Ponce, the SQM chief, has avoided prosecution. But leaked emails from 2010 between a former SQM general manager, Patricio Contesse, and Pablo Longueira, then a senator for the U.D.I. Party, show them discussing changes to a mining royalty bill, and how Mr. Contesse drafted modifications that benefited the company that were later introduced by Mr. Longueira. The law was passed when Mr. Longueira was minister of economy.Mr. Longueira resigned from his party last month, denying wrongdoing and complaining that the news media had already condemned him without a trial. He and Mr. Contesse are expected to be charged with bribery on June 1, prosecutors said.There are also inquiries into the misuse of public funds by the military, collusion by major paper producers and tax fraud and money laundering involving the former leader of Chiles soccer federation, Sergio Jadue, who is now cooperating with American officials in the FIFA corruption scandal.Also under investigation is a former congresswoman, Marta Isasi, who is accused of receiving more than 27 million pesos in 2009 from one of Chiles largest fishing companies, Corpesca, as Congress debated new fishing legislation.
The depth of corruption is enormous, said Carlos Huneeus, a law professor at the University of Chile and the author of the book The Semi-Sovereign Democracy: Chile After Pinochet. Public interest has been subordinated to private interests, and when there is no clear distinction between them, it opens the door to endless opportunities for corruption.Previous investigations have focused on the presidents daughter-in-law, Natalia Compagnon, who was accused in January of issuing false invoices and evading taxes in relation to a speculative land deal that earned millions of dollars in profit for her company, Caval.
Natalia Compagnon, the Chilean presidents daughter-in-law, was accused in January of issuing false invoices and evading taxes in relation to a speculative land deal that earned millions of dollars in profit for her company, Caval.
Several high-profile Chileans were among the clients of Mossack Fonseca, the Panamanian law firm whose leaked documents were published on Sunday by a consortium of newspapers. Chiles Internal Revenue Service announced it would carry out an exhaustive inquiry.The owner of Chiles largest newspaper, El Mercurio, Agustn Edwards, was among those listed in the documents, known as the Panama Papers, as was Hernn Bchi, a former finance minister under Pinochet; Alfredo Ovalle, former president of the business confederation C.P.C.; and the former soccer star Ivn Zamorano. The president of the Chilean chapter of Transparency International, Gonzalo Delaveau, resigned on Monday after his name appeared as the agent of five offshore companies in the Bahamas owned by the mining company Andes Copper, for which he is a board member.The details of these far-reaching scandals, and their ramifications, which emerge almost daily, have become a trending topic in Chile, increasing doubts about the political system and the countrys leaders.Its fair to say that those of us in decision-making positions are being severely questioned and have lost legitimacy, starting with the executive, the president of the Senate, Ricardo Lagos Weber, said last week. But we are not indolent. We have taken action.Last year, Ms. Bachelet appointed an advisory council to propose limits to campaign spending, controls on political parties and banning corporate donations, measures that would first apply to municipal elections in October.These new regulations will make the coming elections radically different, but they wont change public perception that politicians are corrupt, said Claudio Fuentes, the director of the school of political science at Diego Portales University, and a former member of the advisory council.With few untarnished party leaders, many of the traditional political parties are looking to former presidents to stand in next years presidential and legislative campaigns. The right is promoting the businessman Sebastin Piera, who served from 2010 to 2014, and some members of the governing coalition are pushing for Ricardo Lagos, the president from 2000 to 2006, who will be 80 by the time the next president is sworn in.
What well see in the next elections is a repetition of the same political cycle of the past 25 years, with very few new actors, Mr. Fuentes said.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A3 of the New York edition with the headline: Chilean Journalists Face Restraints at a Busy Time.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Daughter-in-Law of Chiles President Faces Corruption Charge
President of Chile Removes Five From Cabinet in a Shake-Up
Daughter-in-Law of Chiles President Faces Corruption Charge
President of Chile Removes Five From Cabinet in a Shake-Up
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
