Insane Car People Pay $22 Million for Seinfelds Fleet - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Mens Style|Insane Car People Pay $22 Million for Seinfelds Fleet
Insane Car People Pay $22 Million for Seinfelds Fleet
A 1955 Porsche 550 Spyder, one of 18 cars owned by the comedian Jerry Seinfeld that went up for sale at the Gooding auction on Amelia Island, Fla.
AMELIA ISLAND, Fla.  On a steamy March day, Jerry Seinfeld stood before a group of men, most of them in polo shirts and loafers, in a muggy tent here at the Omni Amelia Plantation Resort.Thank you, insane car people, he said to a round of applause.He was here because the Jerry Seinfeld Collection, a fleet of 18 cars  16 Porsches and two Volkswagens  was to be sold that day by the auction house Gooding & Company at its annual Amelia Island auction.
Let me be honest with you, Mr. Seinfeld said. I could have gotten rid of every one of these in one day with no problem. But I wanted to be here with you all, who see these things the way I do and enjoy it the way I do. I want to see your face and feel your enthusiasm.With that, he ceded the stage to Charlie Ross, the veteran British auctioneer.Feel the enthusiasm! Mr. Ross shouted before introducing the first item: Mr. Seinfelds unrestored 1966 Porsche 911 with a color described as sand over brown. Mr. Ross mentioned the catalogs description of its delicious interior smell. It was Jerry who said, Smell it, he said. Well, I did. I sat in it and smelled it. And it was wonderful.The vehicle sold for $275,000 (and a 10 percent buyers premium).Up soon after was a blue 2011 Porsche 997 Speedster, the ninth of 356 produced. It included a lot of cool, bare carbon fiber, which I never get tired of, the catalog quoted Mr. Seinfeld as saying. And it fetched $440,000.
If the Porsches attracted serious, or at least wealthy, collectors, the two Volkswagens, a 1960 Beetle and a 1964 camper van, were of greater interest to fans of Mr. Seinfelds, said Bill Noon, a classic car dealer from San Diego. The Volkswagens, he said, were the giggle-and-grin lots to bookend the big sales.
Lets have some fun! Mr. Ross shouted as he introduced the camper.Mr. Noon got it for $99,000 on behalf of a fan who wished to remain anonymous. They wanted to have some Seinfeld memorabilia, Mr. Noon said. They think hes a great comedian.(The sale called to mind the Seinfeld episode in which George Costanza bought a used Chrysler LeBaron because he was under the impression that it once belonged to the actor Jon Voight.)
A deep round of applause indicated that things had taken a more serious turn with the introduction of the next lot: a 1955 Porsche 550 Spyder, not unlike the one James Dean was driving when he died. You cant drive a sonnet by Shakespeare or a symphony by Beethoven, Mr. Seinfeld said of this car in the catalog. But this would be the automotive equivalent.After Mr. Ross wielded his magic, it sold for $5.335 million.Astute viewers of Seinfeld have noted the poster of an airborne Porsche in the apartment of Mr. Seinfelds TV character. Since the show ended in 1998, he has become increasingly associated with collectible cars, especially Porsches, first through the star-crossed construction of a bunkerlike garage near his Upper West Side home and, more recently, through his web series, Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee, which gives nearly as much time to vintage automobiles as it does to its guests, who have included Mel Brooks and President Obama.Magnus Walker, the scruffy Porsche collector and blogger, said he was in attendance to get a close-up glimpse of this portion of Mr. Seinfelds fleet. Theres a certain attraction to this particular collection all coming out in one go, he said, especially since hes chosen to go this way rather then selling them off privately.
Since Mr. Walker makes a point of bargain hunting for the air-cooled Porsche 911 models he favors, he didnt bid on the Seinfeld cars. He said he has noticed an increasing number of Ferrari guys or Lamborghini guys coming into the Porsche world, making it more of a challenge to get the cars he wants at a decent price.One such guy is Tony Shooshani, a real estate developer from Los Angeles. Hes a Porsche guy, Im a Ferrari guy, and Im branching out to be in his world, Mr. Shooshani said of Mr. Seinfeld. He made the winning bid of $363,000 for a white and black 1989 911 Carrera Speedster, described in the catalog by Mr. Seinfeld as having a Star Wars Storm Trooper look with snazzy low-cut top.Mr. Shooshani received a confirmation form for the vehicle and a chit entitling him to a photograph with Mr. Seinfeld. He just told me about the car and the way he drove it and how much he loved it, Mr. Shooshani said he was told after acquiring the car. He attended the event with his girlfriend, Danielle Alura, a 2015 Miss U.S. International beauty pageant contestant.
NYT Living Newsletter Get lifestyle news from the Style, Travel and Food sections, from the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Its hard to gauge the premium placed on Mr. Seinfelds cars, but later in the auction a 1989 Speedster similar to the one purchased by Mr. Shooshani (but not owned by Mr. Seinfeld) sold for $209,000.
During the day, Mr. Seinfeld parted with a light-yellow 1974 Porsche 911 Carrera 3.0 built for the IROC racing series (for $2.31 million) and a 1959 Porsche 718 RSK ($2.86 million). Not all pre-auction estimates were met. A 1973 917/30 Can-Am Spyder racing car with a projected price of $5 million to $7 million sold for $3 million. All told, the 18 Seinfeld Collection vehicles brought in roughly $22 million.Its not like hes selling lesser examples from his collection or cars that arent great, said David Gooding, the president of Gooding & Company. Its a catch-and-release kind of thing.Spike Feresten, the host of Car Matchmaker on the Esquire Network, attended as a Porsche enthusiast and as a friend to Mr. Seinfeld. He wrote the Soup Nazi and Muffin Tops episodes for Seinfeld, and he has remained friends with Mr. Seinfeld in the years since.Jerry has been generous enough to let me drive an awful lot of his collection, Mr. Feresten said, before finding himself unable to resist making a Seinfeld allusion. And I can tell you: Theyre real and theyre spectacular.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page D11 of the New York edition with the headline: A $22 Million Garage Sale.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
On HBOs Girls, a Kitty Genovese Plot Proves Eerily Timed
Uber Driver Napped as His Passenger Led Highway Chase, Police Say
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
