Myanmar to Free Political Prisoners, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi Says - 

Asia Pacific|Myanmar to Free Political Prisoners, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi Says
Myanmar to Free Political Prisoners, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi Says
Khaing Mar Nyein, left, and Phyu Phyu Khaing, a pair of detainees in Myanmar. They are among dozens facing trial after participating in student protests. The pair posed outside the courthouse in Tharrawaddy on Tuesday, two days before Daw Aung San Suu Kyi said she would seek the release of political prisoners.
MANDALAY, Myanmar  Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, in her first act as Myanmars state counselor, said Thursday that she would seek to free political prisoners, including students, describing the issue as the top priority of her partys new government.Myanmar is holding more than 500 people who are considered political prisoners, most of whom have not faced trial. It was unclear how many students Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi was referring to, but dozens of students are facing trial for participating in protests.She said that next week, when the country celebrates the start of the Burmese New Year, would be an appropriate time to release political prisoners. She did not say how many she hoped to free.In this time of the Burmese New Year, we will release political prisoners and activists and students who are facing charges as soon as possible, she said in a statement released by her office.
President Htin Kyaw of Myanmar with Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the countrys state counselor, at the presidents house in Naypyidaw on Wednesday.
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate and former political prisoner who spent 15 years under house arrest, took on the newly created post of state counselor this week in a move to get around a ban on her serving as the countrys president.The military, which drafted Myanmars Constitution, included a provision barring anyone from serving as president who has family members with foreign citizenship. Her children are British citizens, as was her husband.
She said during last years campaign that she would serve above the president if voters chose her party, the National League for Democracy. Her party won by a landslide in November and holds large majorities in both houses of Parliament. She named her close ally, U Htin Kyaw, to serve as president.Most of the countrys political prisoners who were arrested under the military dictatorship have already been freed. The former president, U Thein Sein, a former general who stepped down last week, released more than 1,200 political prisoners during his five years in office.
Todays Headlines: Asia Edition Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for 's products and services.
Myanmar still has 526 political prisoners, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, a group that tracks the plight of jailed dissidents in Myanmar. About a hundred of them have been convicted and are serving prison sentences. But more than 400 others were arrested relatively recently and are awaiting trial.In her brief statement, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi said there were three ways her government could release prisoners: a presidential amnesty under criminal law, a presidential amnesty under the Constitution, or the withdrawal of charges by prosecutors for those who have not yet been tried.The Assistance Association for Political Prisoners said that all the prisoners could be freed through a grant of amnesty.But it was unclear whether the military would try to block an amnesty or the dropping of charges for prisoners awaiting trial. The approval of the national security council, which is dominated by military appointees, is required for a presidential amnesty.And prisoners who have not been tried come under the authority of the minister of home affairs, one of three ministers appointed by the army commander in chief under the Constitution.
Saw Nang reported from Mandalay, and Richard C. Paddock from Bangkok.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: Daw Aung San Suu Kyi Vows to Free Political Prisoners.

President of Myanmar Urges Patience in Move Toward Democracy
Myanmar to Create New Post for Aung San Suu Kyi, Cementing Her Power
President of Myanmar Urges Patience in Move Toward Democracy
Myanmar to Create New Post for Aung San Suu Kyi, Cementing Her Power

