The Dark History of Defending the Homeland - 

Magazine|The Dark History of Defending the Homeland
Illustration by Javier Jan. Barbed wire: Penchan Pumila, via Dreamstime
In 2010, the screenwriter and producer Alex Gansa finished the script for a political thriller involving a deeply troubled C.I.A. agent and a soldier who had been turned by the Taliban, and began thinking about a title. He recalls that he wanted a word or phrase to conjure an atmosphere of creepy subversion  something sinister, xenophobic, un-American. Shadowland? No, not quite. Homeland? Perfect.Ever since President George W. Bush, in the aftermath of Sept. 11, vowed to strengthen the homeland and authorized the establishment of a Department of Homeland Security, this peculiar coinage has burrowed its way into the American lexicon as if it were an earwig. In the current presidential campaign, homeland fills the air. In a December debate, both Senator Ted Cruz and Gov. John Kasich included among a presidents core obligations protecting the homeland.Yet as Gansa intuited, a word ostensibly deployed to offer a sense of comfort instead unleashes deep undercurrents of anxiety. When the D.H.S. was first proposed in June 2002, the conservative columnist Peggy Noonan complained that the president should have found some less spine-chilling entity to secure from attack. Even Tom Ridge, the departments first director, conceded that he had heard grumblings that homeland was un-American.What is it about homeland that feels more like a violation than an affirmation of American identity? In traditional usage, the word evokes the link between a people and the state that is theirs, or that they wish to be theirs. With the founding of Israel in 1948, Jews gained a homeland. Palestinians lost one. Homeland throbs with the primal forces of state formation. The word points to a world of solidarity forged through blood ties, through ancient ritual and legend. Continue reading the main story
This ethnocentric conception of nationhood is what Americas founding generations gratefully left behind when they reached the New World, where they built a nation out of acquiescence to a shared social contract. Its true that Americans identify intensely with the physical landscape  the little house on the prairie, the amber waves of grain, the Rockies and the Mississippi. In the novels of James Fenimore Cooper or the paintings of Albert Bierstadt or Thomas Cole, we see how the New World shapes a new people. And yet, save for the Native Americans, the people were not indigenous.
In Landscape and Memory, the historian Simon Schama describes the influence of topography  of forest, mountain and stream  on the formation of European identities. Long before it was a nation, he writes, Germany was an amalgam of tribes inhabiting a world of swamp and forest. The German Romantics revived this ancient cult as a means of fostering a national identity. Germans were not just people but a people, with an immemorial link to their land. They used the word heimat, or homeland, to evoke this deep bond and this racial identity. Heimat is a feminine noun, and it thus conveyed the idea of motherland.Celia Applegate, a professor of German history at Vanderbilt University, writes that heimat carries overwhelmingly cozy, warm, childhood, affectively tender connotations. Hitler very consciously revived the cult of heimat, posing for photographs in sylvan settings and revitalizing the ancient rites of forest worship. Heimat was the warm alternative to the sterner vaterland (fatherland), also in common usage. The use of the former, Applegate notes, allowed the Nazis to talk about loving your hometown, not hating the Jews. Heimat converted the idea of the homeland into racial propaganda and rallying cry. Applegate says that she found it incredibly creepy  that word again  that the D.H.S. would hijack the cozy associations of heimat, as Hitler did, to rally citizens to the defense of the nation.
The nature bond of homeland need not be saturated in blood: In Israel, the Hebrew word moledet, also translated as homeland, evokes a very German sort of topographical mania, the naming of every rock and tree, the love of hiking and the outdoors. In its political aspect, however, the cause is less benign: The small Moledet Party called for the transfer of Palestinians from the West Bank so that Israel could reclaim all of what it sees as its historic territory  and what the Palestinians see as theirs.The American adoption of homeland is in fact less folkloric than technocratic. The former Senator Joseph Lieberman, one of the leading advocates of creating the Department of Homeland Security, told me that he and others lifted the word from the United States Commission on National Security, which authored a February 2001 report calling for the creation of a National Homeland Security Agency. That report, in turn, drew on a 1997 experts report on the Pentagon, which highlighted the need for homeland defense. In years past, the authors noted, the only real threat to the continental United States had come from Russias nuclear capacity; now the United States had to defend itself against terrorism, information warfare, weapons of mass destruction.The rise of homeland thus tracks the rise of the national sense of vulnerability. As we use it now, homeland means the country insofar as it is endangered. It is cold rather than warm  a term fit for a dictator. Indeed, in 1977, Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the Chilean strongman, submitted a referendum to citizens in response to a United Nations resolution condemning his abuse of human rights: In the face of the international pressure unleashed against the homeland, the operative clause began, I support President Pinochet in his defense of the dignity of Chile.Vulnerability itself has become our great national theme. George W. Bush responded to the terrorist attacks by embarking on a crusade to strengthen democracy in the Middle East and elsewhere. But the central claim of most of the Republican candidates running for president this year is that the nation  the homeland  is under attack, whether from Mexican immigrants, Syrian refugees, terrorist lone wolves or Chinese imports. We have people across this country who are scared to death, as Gov. Chris Christie put it before bowing out of the race. Todays crop of Republicans has very little of Bushs confidence that America can make a better world, whether through persuasion or force. If we cant shape the world, they argue, at least we can stop it at our border. The dominant foreign-policy image of the G.O.P. debates has been a wall. Terrorists can simply swim across the Rio Grande, Ted Cruz ominously declared. Cruz wants to triple ground forces along the border. Donald Trump promises to build the Great Wall of Texas.
We have come a long way in a short time. In 2008, Barack Obama ran for office promising to restore Americas good name in the world through a policy of engagement with adversaries and respectful treatment of allies. His rival, John McCain, was equally convinced of Americas indispensable role in the world, though he put less store in diplomacy than Obama did and more in force. Each argued that foreign policy involved seizing opportunities as much as warding off threats.And now? Our homeland bristles, thickens, fortifies. We wont close Guantnamo because terrorists are too terrifying to have on our soil. We resist taking refugees from Syria. We decant our liquids into 3.4-ounce bottles before climbing on a plane. We think twice before going to jihadist hotbeds like Paris. We build walls in ourselves and between ourselves. No place is safe  not even the homeland.
James Traub is a columnist and a contributor at foreignpolicy.com. His latest book is John Quincy Adams: Militant Spirit.
Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of  Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page MM15 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: Zone Defense.

From Hamilton to Donald Trump: Are All Grievances Created Equal?
How Bias Went From a Psychological Observation to a Political Accusation
Whats Really Behind Trumps Obsession With Clintons Stamina?
How Republican Politicians Learned to Love Working Mothers

