
Where Theres a Will: Cynthia DAprix Sweeney, a former copywriter who returned to school in her 50s, made news a couple of years ago when her debut novel, The Nest, sold for seven figures. (Interviewing her for The Los Angeles Times recently, the author Meredith Maran began, Tell me why I shouldnt hate you.) But in publishing as in politics, a big war chest alone doesnt necessarily ensure success. Money is very important, the eminent publisher Howard Kaminsky told this newspaper in 1985, in an article headlined Why Best Sellers Sell Best, and Other Publishing Secrets. (The short version: Nobody knows.) But theres no guarantee of money making something happen. You need a book with intrinsic value, even if its frivolous intrinsic value. Now Sweeneys novel is out, and early reviews confirm that The Nest  a dark comedy about adult siblings squabbling over their lost inheritance  is worth the buzz. Still, Sweeney has maintained a sense of perspective. Were not people who are flashily trying to get attention, she said of herself and her writer friends in a recent profile in New York magazine. Whatever props we get, its just because were diligent workers. Or, as she put it in her interview with Maran: Its not like I went out there saying, Ill only accept a million dollars for this book. Its lunacy, that much money. On the other hand, I wish the publishing world was structured differently, so an author getting paid a lot for her book wasnt such a rare thing that its news. I wrote the book I wanted to write. I was just hoping someone would want it. She can stop worrying on that count: The Nest enters the hardcover fiction list at No.3.
Book Review Newsletter Sign up to receive a preview of each Sundays Book Review, delivered to your inbox every Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for 's products and services.
Long, Strange Trip: The former basketball superstar and current ESPN analyst Bill Walton has a memoir on the hardcover nonfiction list: Back From the Dead is new at No.14. The books title is partly a reference to Waltons battles with injuries and depression  he was close to killing himself in 2009, he has said  and partly a tribute to his favorite band, the Grateful Dead. For a long time everything constantly hurt, he told The Wall Street Journal recently. What helped me power through my recovery was music. Ive been a Deadhead for 49 years. I started listening to them in 1967, when I was 15. Ive found that all of their music is really one long song with different verses. ... Ive always felt that the Deads music was written for me, to me and about me. Thanks to their music, Im a different person than I was yesterday. I can walk again, Im pain-free and I dont have to take any medication.Shame on You: Harlan Cobens Fool Me Once, which deals in part with online privacy concerns, hits the hardcover fiction list at No.1. If you think what youre doing online can be anonymous, youre out of your mind, Coben told The Houston Chronicle. Everything can be discovered.
A version of this list appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page BR26 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Inside the List.

Understand the world better with our primers and pointers about the news.
What New Rules on Retirement Savings Mean for Investors
Interview With a Fed Dissident: The Sole Vote to Raise Interest Rates
If Cruz Keeps This Pace, Trump Wont Get a Majority of Delegates
Morning Agenda: Pfizer Said to Call Off Merger With Allergan

