Malaysia Panel Calls for Investigation of Former Head of 1MDB Fund - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Asia Pacific|Malaysia Panel Calls for Investigation of Former Head of 1MDB Fund
Malaysia Panel Calls for Investigation of Former Head of 1MDB Fund
The police seizing equipment from the office of 1Malaysia Development Berhad, the state investment fund, in Kuala Lumpur, the capital, last year.
BANGKOK  A parliamentary committee in Malaysia on Thursday called for an investigation of the former head of the countrys troubled state investment fund and said that the funds advisory board, led by Prime Minister Najib Razak, should be abolished.Within hours of the committees report, the members of the board of directors of the fund, known as 1Malaysia Development Berhad, or 1MDB, said they would offer their resignation to the funds owner, the Ministry of Finance. The ministry is headed by Mr. Najib, who serves as finance minister in addition to his other roles.This has been a difficult decision to take, but we believe it is the right thing to do, given the circumstances, in order to facilitate any follow-up investigations as recommended by the committee, the board said in a statement.Critics and published reports have accused Mr. Najib of depositing hundreds of millions of dollars in his personal bank accounts, much of it from 1MDB.Some have suggested that he had undue influence over the fund because of his roles as finance minister and head of the funds advisory board.
Mr. Najib, who has held on to power over the past year partly by firing critics and slowing investigations, has denied that the fund was the source of the money in his accounts. His allies say that most of the money came from a Saudi donor and that most of it has been returned.The 106-page report, released Thursday by Parliaments Public Accounts Committee, gave fodder to both sides in the debate.Tony Pua, an opposition member of Parliament who serves on the committee, said the report vindicated critics of the investment fund and confirmed that it engaged in gross mismanagement and wanton neglect of all principles of good governance and accountability.The panel called on the authorities to investigate the conduct of Shahrol Azral Ibrahim Halmi, who was the chief executive of the fund from its creation in 2009 until 2013.Mr. Shahrol said in a statement that he had broken no laws and had appeared before the committee on multiple occasions.
Todays Headlines: Asia Edition Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
I wish to emphasize again that there was no wrongdoing or illegal activity at the company under my watch, he said. I will continue to extend my full cooperation, confident in the knowledge that I have done no wrong and have nothing to hide.Mr. Pua went further than the committee, saying that the police should investigate Mr. Shahrol and the entire board of directors.Mr. Pua also charged that 1MDB had hampered investigations by the countrys auditor general and the committee by providing half-truths, withholding crucial information and defiantly refusing to supply simple bank statements of its overseas accounts. Even so, he said, evidence of misconduct was overwhelming.
What is clear is that there is more than sufficient damning evidence to indict not only the entire top management, but also the entire board of directors, he said.Mr. Najib, who has rarely commented on the scandal, issued a statement praising the report as comprehensive, conclusive and definitive.He said the findings rebutted allegations from a former prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, that 42 billion Malaysian ringgit, the equivalent of more than $10 billion, had disappeared from the fund.Mr. Mahathir told Reuters last year that of 42 billion ringgit that the fund had raised, 27 billion ringgit could not be accounted for.In his statement on Thursday about the parliamentary report, Mr. Najib said: Having reviewed it, I note that the report shows that 42 billion is not missing from 1MDB, as had been alleged by Tun Mahathir. It is now clear that Tun Mahathirs allegations against 1MDB have been false.The prime minister contends that the allegations were part of a politically motivated campaign led by Mr. Mahathir to topple him. Mr. Mahathir, who has called on Mr. Najib to step down, could not be reached for comment.Mr. Pua, who also has called on Mr. Najib to step down, acknowledged that the panel did not conclude that the money was missing. But he said the panel also could not confirm the moneys existence, in part because 1MDB did not provide information about its overseas accounts.Mr. Najib offered no comment in his statement about either the panels recommendation that the authorities investigate Mr. Shahrol or its assertion that the 1MDB advisory board be eliminated.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Inquiry Into Malaysian Fund Is Sought.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Ex-Official Calls for Malaysian Prime Minister to Step Down
Mahathir Mohamad Quits Malaysias Governing Party, Citing Corruption
No End to Scrutiny Over Millions Sent to Malaysian Leaders Accounts
Swiss Question Use of Malaysian Sovereign Fund Run by Prime Minister
Ex-Official Calls for Malaysian Prime Minister to Step Down
Mahathir Mohamad Quits Malaysias Governing Party, Citing Corruption
No End to Scrutiny Over Millions Sent to Malaysian Leaders Accounts
Swiss Question Use of Malaysian Sovereign Fund Run by Prime Minister
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
