book publishers worry about threat of internet


by doreen carvajal


published: march 18, 1996









paris— 
                    officially, "le grand secret" remains a literary state secret, a physician's  tortured confessional disclosing the elaborate deception to hide the failing health of francois mitterrand and the vagaries of his prostate.        

                    the former french president's grieving family has scorned the book and a french judge has banned it for privacy violations. but these state secrets are the world's to share with a few computer keystrokes to internet world wide web sites with the complete text, graphics and a gloomy image of mr. mitterrand, his mouth muffled by tape. still in preparation is the english version, which is being translated by eager internet volunteers in pennsylvania, california and britain.        

                    my first reaction when it happened was well-done, well-played," said olivier orban, the director of plon publishing, which sold 40,000 copies of the  book in the week before it was banned in january. "but then i realized the danger on the internet for all books in the future. we can't protect the author  and the copyright. i think we have no means to fight against it."        

                    the same cold chill of anxiety has stricken publishers in the united states who contend that copyright infringement on the internet is the most critical threat facing the industry. worried publishing executives are pressing for new legislation that will tighten copyright restrictions on the internet and impose  penalties for violations of as much as $500,000 in fines and five-year jail sentences. later this month, the senate judiciary committee will hold a hearing  on the proposed legislation, focusing on the piracy of books on the internet along with music, videos and software.        

                    some fiction publishers insist that it is not a major problem, arguing that few people are willing to curl up with a computer to savor a novel or pay for the paper and toner to print out "war and peace." most in the industry are worried about potential threats, particularly the refinement of scanning technology that could speed the electronic transmission and distribution of runaway underground best sellers.        

                    "just as we teach our children not to steal toys, just as we teach our children not to plagiarize, we have to get across the message that you don't steal from the internet," barbara munder, a senior vice-president with mcgraw-hill, said in an interview. she testified before a congressional committee on the issue in february.        

                    simon & schuster, the largest publisher in the united states, is not even waiting for congress to vote. it has hired a computer team of cybercops whose sole task is to prowl the internet for new ideas and purloined books.        

                    pirated books on the internet amount to "leakage," at this point, said jonathan newcomb, the president of simon & schuster. "but the potential is clearly there to be an issue beyond ones we've seen -- for hemorrhaging," he added.        

                    in some cases, books are already starting to run away. within minutes it is possible to retrieve the science fiction classic by douglas adams, "the hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy" from web sites in finland, australia and germany. it takes nine minutes to download and copy the 109-page guide on a high-speed printer.        

                    at least five chapters of howard stern's best seller, "miss america," surfaced briefly on a web site until the publisher harpercollins demanded its removal.        

                    "le grand secret," written by mr. mitterrand's personal physician, charles gubler, is one of the first commercial books widely available on the internet. plon publishing ultimately decided to take no action for copyright infringement  because the book is banned. "in a normal circumstance it is a theft," mr. orban  said, "but in these circumstances we couldn't have the same judgment."        

                    at least 800 users have logged onto the british web site; "le grand secret" sites have also spontaneously surfaced in canada and california. and 2,000 thousand people have signed onto the pittsburgh page created by declan mccullagh, a student at carnegie-mellon university who describes himself as an internet activist devoted to free speech and censorship issues.        

                    his readers are the world's curiosity seekers like eric harrati, a french resident who downloaded the book and distributed copies to friends. "it really made people understand here in france how efficient the internet could be," he said. "and i understand that it could scare people."        

                    in switzerland, bruno giussani downloaded a few pages of the book partly out  of curiosity and partly for the boasting rights of ownership. when damien schmidt in france could not download the book from a french web site where users were logging on at the rate of 200 an hour, he turned to the pittsburgh site.        

                    despite the rapid spread of the book, the flight of "le grand secret" was not smooth. near the swiss border in france, the owner of a cybercafe -- which combines food and computers for its customers -- scanned the entire book onto his web site, but the system was so overloaded by users that it crashed. eventually, mr. mccullagh obtained an electronic copy, but to reduce the size of the computer-scanned text he enlisted a volunteer to laboriously type the entire book into the computer.        







1

2


next page >
