cutting the web down to size; new tools let you get the information you want (as long as your computer doesn't crash)


by lisa guernsey


published: october 12, 2000









                    the average web surfer opens the netscape or internet explorer browser, punches in a web address, comes to a web page, then clicks from page to page. when lost, the person tries to maneuver through an array of bookmarks or, more often than not, resorts to the back button.        

                    in 1994, that page-turning process seemed revolutionary. today, it not only sounds run-of-the-mill but is also considered by many new internet companies to be, well, ridiculous. why should a person who wants a few headlines have to open a full page of information? why should anyone have to click on link after link to get to the right information? and how many people really go back to all those web sites they bookmark?        

                    convinced that web users are hungry for a better way, at least a dozen new companies are offering free services and software that they say will streamline browsing and ultimately change the way people experience the internet. but before everyone applauds the arrival of these next-generation services, observers have a few warnings. the new tools, they say, may also lead to new annoyances, especially technical glitches, and new risks to consumers' privacy.        

                    ''your options are now richer and more various,'' said keith dawson, an internet consultant who edits and publishes an online newsletter called tasty bits from the technology front. ''but from a privacy point of view, there are now more threats, more potential for the leakage of personal information.''        

                    among the new tools, the most radical enable people to disregard the standard web browser altogether by downloading colorful, internet-based taskbars that are displayed on the computer desktop. two of the services now available are snippets and entrypoint, which use a long, horizontal bar that sits at the bottom of your screen. another is dodots, which features small square windows that hover on your desktop wherever you choose to put them. they enable users to view bits of data, like the current weather or local traffic reports, without opening a full web page.        

                    other programs work within the format of the standard web browser but tweak it. a company called neoplanet offers people the chance to alter their internet explorer browsers by dressing them up with color and patterns while also adding buttons for their favorite sports and shopping sites, weather reports and news headlines. another service, called hotbar.com, offers similar options for both netscape and internet explorer browsers.        

                    and a third species of service lets people set up their own personalized gates to the web, a la my yahoo, but with the option of gathering headlines or bits of data from whatever sites the users choose. that means users do not have to select sites from among those that have deals with yahoo or other major internet portals.        

                    ''it's not up to us to go out and figure out what you want to see,'' said william a. chen, founder and chief executive of onepage, one of the personalization companies. ''that's not our job.''        

                    in addition to onepage, other customization services include octopus, which invites the surfer to add a new button to the browser that can be used to clip sections of web pages at will, and clickmarks, which seeks to provide personalized portals for wireless devices as well as for computer desktops.        

                    not to be outdone, the developers of internet explorer and netscape are unveiling new browsing tools, too. netscape 6, which is available in beta versions, includes tabs on the left side of the browser that can be customized to include pieces of web content. microsoft's latest version of internet explorer, 5.5, allows people to create buttons that link to frequently used web sites, like company intranets or school lunch menus. the browser has also been designed to encourage developers to create taskbars that display headlines or stock quotations even as new web pages are opened.        

                    amid the cacophony, one thing rings clear: the battle continues to rage for the attention of the internet user. ''everyone and his brother wants to have more of your eyeball space,'' said paul hagen, an analyst at forrester research. if a company can persuade surfers to rely on its service, to scan the service constantly for quick hits of updated and personalized information, that company has the best shot of turning traffic into advertising and e-commerce revenue.        

                    of course, some would argue that this is not a new mission. in the early days of the web, a company called pointcast offered users a non-web toolbar that included streaming news feeds. about the same time, america online started to feature some personalization, like zip-code-specific data on weather reports. and officials for my yahoo and my excite, some of the earliest iterations of personalized web-clipping programs, say that web users are still signing up for their services in droves.        

                    but the developers of the new options say they offer more time savings and flexibility. imagine, for example, that you simply want to know how cold it is outside. if you have a snippets taskbar and an always-on internet connection, you can simply glance at the bar's weather icon, where the local temperature is displayed and updated continually, even when you are working offline in an application like microsoft word.        







1

2


next page >




 



















subscribe to technology rss feeds





technology news

internet
start-ups
business computing
companies








bits blog
personal tech
pogue’s posts
