some suburban pioneers in yonkers find creative ways to occupy big houses


by joseph giovannini


published: january 3, 1985









                    dr. bruce fader, a psychiatrist, and kim brown fader, an editor, may still work in manhattan and often socialize there on weekends. but from grand central they are only half an hour by train from the arugula, watercress, bok choy and bibb and boston lettuce growing in the heated greenhouse of a large house they recently bought in the park hill area of yonkers. on the acre of land around their home the couple have planted an orchard of dwarf fruit trees and a vegetable and fruit garden.        

                    after looking for about five years for a suitable dwelling for their family of five in new york, the faders discovered an enclave of large, late-19th- and early-20th-century houses in what dr. fader calls ''a pocket of cheapness.'' the faders paid $140,000 for a 5,000- square-foot house that has an 18-by-30-foot library, an adjacent 15-by- 15-foot reading room and a 15-by-30-foot living room, besides its land and greenhouse. there is, of course, work to be done in the 1894 structure; they have started refinishing the elaborate woodwork of the staircase themselves.        

                    ''we're trying to do things the inexpensive way, which takes more time,'' dr. fader said. ''but in two or three years we'll be living in a mansion.''        

                    the faders are among a number of families that, seeking larger homes outside manhattan, have discovered park hill - one of the first planned residential suburbs around new york and one that remains, despite some latter-day construction and urban decline in the area surrounding it, a fairly cohesive district of about 200 spacious, richly detailed houses of considerable character. the area developed as a railroad suburb, laid out with large lots, winding roads and picturesque landscaping that still encourages a sense of seclusion and privacy. according to a promotional brochure of the time, it was to be ''an ideal community, in which every modern improvement would supplement noble natural scenery.''        

                    park hill, whose residents have applied for designation as a historic district, overlooks the hudson river from a 300-foot-high promontory with many rock ledges and outcroppings. houses are situated to capture the views, and some, with bases built of stone, appear to grow out of their sites. the people now buying in the area, said nortrud spero, a sales associate at ludlow, hudson & parke realty, are ''artistically inclined professionals interested in preserving the past.'' some choose to send their children to private schools - a decision that may offset the saving made in purchasing houses at relatively low prices.        

                    the faders say that they would not have bought their house had they not been encouraged by the example across the street of the lafond family - a three-generation extended family renovating an extremely large, picturesque structure known as the overcliff house, an architectural centerpiece of the area.        

                    ''our old house in tappan blew up in a gas explosion,'' said carl tiktin, husband of one of the lafond daughters and an author. ''we came across this house in the newspaper.'' the 31-room shingle-style, turreted house was clearly too large for mr. tiktin and his wife, colette, a teacher, and their daughter; the couple talked with mrs. tiktin's sister, mich ele shapiro, then living in soho, who, with her husband, agreed to join the venture. the two couples then approached the sisters' parents about participating. although mrs. lafond was originally opposed, mr. lafond, a recently retired educator - and the only handyman in the extended family - welcomed the project. ''i'd rather die working,'' he said. the lafonds sold their house in queens village to take part.        

                    the lafond family, originally from haiti, bought the place for $140,000 and, over the last year, has invested about $105,000, the members of the family doing much of the labor themselves and serving as contractors. the renovation has involved rewiring, replumbing, roofing, insulating and replastering, as well as painting and refinishing and installing two new boilers. the stonework outside - typical of many of the houses in this area - was repointed and repaired. the group has bought some victorian furniture for the family rooms on the ground floor and has furnished the bedroom suites in contemporary style. mrs. shapiro, who says it takes her only 25 minutes to get to soho, reports, ''my friends there all think i'm up here churning butter.''        

                    living together as an extended family has been an experiment, and one that has worked well. the family has divided the upstairs quarters into suites, each larger than the homes the parts of the family had moved from, with enough space left over for mr. tiktin's writer's aerie and an office for the shapiros set up in part of what was originally a chapel. mr. tiktin, who, carrying a cordless telephone, conducts tours of the vast house, says that when he mislays the phone he has to call from another line so that he can locate it by its ring. many of the rooms in the house are circular; the tour climaxes in a circular tower with a circumferential view of the hudson.        







1

2


next page >
