Microsoft Software Updates Go on Sale to Businesses - New York Times
campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/technology/01vista.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/technology, position: Bar1
Microsoft Software Updates Go on Sale to Businesses
Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, rang the opening bell at the Nasdaq as the operating system became available to corporate buyers. Consumer sales start on Jan. 30.
Microsoft yesterday rolled out new versions of its dominant desktop programs, Windows and Office, beginning a series of new offerings that the company will introduce over the next year to combat a rising challenge from Internet-based software.
After 5 Years, Latest Version of Windows Is Set to Ship (Nov. 9, 2006)
Microsoft Profit and Revenue Up 11% on Strength of Games and Servers (Oct. 27, 2006)
Saturday Interview With Steven A. Ballmer: Is Windows Near End of Its Run? (Oct. 14, 2006)
Microsoft Says New Windows Is on Schedule (May 24, 2006)
The products, led by Windows Vista and Office 2007, are being made available immediately to business customers, but they will not arrive in the consumer market until after the holiday shopping season, on Jan. 30. Vista has suffered repeated delays, coming five years after the previous version of the Windows operating system, a lengthy gap Microsoft has vowed will not happen again.At a marketing event for businesses held in New York, Microsoft emphasized not only its desktop products, but also how they will work with its server software to increase productivity by making it easier for workers to collaborate in online teams, retrieve and reply to e-mail messages by phone using voice-recognition software, and easily search for information inside their laptop or across their corporation.This is by far the biggest wave of products weve ever introduced, said Steven A. Ballmer, chief executive of Microsoft.Some customers have been working with early, or beta, copies of Windows Vista and Office 2007, for several months now. A few of them appeared with Mr. Ballmer yesterday to discuss the advantages of the new products  like improved 3-D graphics and better security in Vista, and collaboration abilities in Office.PC makers, software developers and others who rely on Microsofts Windows technology were disappointed by the delay past the holiday season in the consumer market, and their sales will most likely suffer this year.Yet the next Windows and Office cycle of buying is now on the horizon, and they are positioning themselves for advantage. Dell, for example, has stumbled over the last year. But it is strongest in the corporate market and it hopes to benefit from helping business customers make the transition to Windows Vista and Office 2007 relatively quickly and inexpensively. This should work to Dells advantage, said Brad Anderson, a Dell senior vice president.In its new products, Microsoft is acknowledging the importance customers place on Internet-based software  a technology direction symbolized by
Google, which in addition to search is also offering other services, including Web-based document processing.The new wave of Microsoft offerings has been designed to find, view and link to blogs on the Internet, for example, and to use that technology with Microsoft products. We want to bring those innovations safely inside the corporation, Mr. Ballmer said.Microsoft also released new versions of two server products, Exchange Server 2007 and Office SharePoint Server 2007, which corporations have also been testing. The big gains for corporate customers, according to Mr. Ballmer, will come from using the new desktop and server software together. Its a Microsoft family of products, he said. And theres all this innovation thats coming behind the flagship products.Exchange is the server program behind Outlook, Microsofts desktop e-mail and communications software, which is part of the Office suite of products. SharePoint is a collaboration tool, which allows people to work together and jointly modify reports, project plans and other documents online.SharePoint is similar to Web software for collaboration, like wikis,
which are gaining in popularity inside companies. Eyeing the potential, Google recently bought a wiki start-up company called Jotspot.SharePoint is a collaboration tool, but one that is tied to the Office suite of productivity programs like Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook, which are familiar to hundreds of millions of workers.SharePoint, analysts say, is doing well within companies, which want to enhance collaboration and productivity, but may be reluctant to rely on a start-up or free software for technology.Thats a big lock-in factor and it helps Microsoft, at least for the next few years, said Michael Silver, an analyst at Gartner, a research firm.While many companies are experimenting with Web-based software and free versions of office-oriented programs, they do
not yet represent a real threat to Microsofts industry-dominant Windows and Office products, analysts say, at least not for another few years.This is a better Windows and a better Office, and there is no feasible alternative for most companies, said Jim Murphy, an analyst for AMR Research, a technology consulting firm. The testers of the new Microsoft products included the Scripps Research Institute in San Diego, where the cancer research group is using Vista, Office and SharePoint to show 3-D images of protein molecules on the surface of cancer cells, let scientists worldwide look at them and share written research. The specialized application was built in two weeks. That simplicity is essential, and revolutionary, to help speed the pace of innovation in the kind of work we do, said Dr. Peter Kuhn, a cell biologist at the institute.Michael Wolf, chief executive of MTV Networks, said the new Microsoft products made it easier and faster for teams of writers in far-flung locations to make changes quickly on scripts for television programs, all working from their favored Office program. Our people are addicted to Outlook, Mr. Wolf said. Shaygan Kheradpir, the chief information officer of
Verizon, said the BitLocker feature in Vista, which allows for automatic data encryption, will ease his worries when company laptops are lost or stolen. Its a quantum jump in security and privacy, he said.Microsoft has long said that its toughest competitor in the personal computer operating system market is previous versions of its own Windows software. And corporations tend to move gradually to new operating systems, waiting a year or two after a new Windows version is released, as they test their internal software applications and write new ones tailored for the new Windows.But for most companies, its not a question of if, but when, Mr. Murphy of AMR Research said.
Related ArticlesFor $150, Third-World Laptop Stirs Big Debate(November 30, 2006)Microsoft Gives Europe Antitrust Documents(November 24, 2006)Technology Briefing | Software: Israel Suspends Acquisitions Of Microsoft Software(December 31, 2003)Microsoft to Pay $60 Million Settlement(December 26, 2003)
Related SearchesMicrosoft CorpComputer SoftwareComputer SecurityComputers and the Internet
Amazon Leans on Government in Its Quest to Be a Delivery Powerhouse
Bits: Flinging Emojis, Twitch Chatters Revel as Julia Child Cooks
Its Discounted, but Is It a Deal? How List Prices Lost Their Meaning
Breaking Down Apples iPhone Fight With the U.S. Government
Tech Fix: Siri, Alexa and Other Virtual Assistants Put to the Test
App Smart: Checklists and Tips to Help Streamline Spring Cleaning
Amazon Leans on Government in Its Quest to Be a Delivery Powerhouse
Apple's Latest Product Event Isn't Causing a Big Stir
Apple Encryption Engineers, if Ordered to Unlock iPhone, Might Resist
Fans Demand Details After Death of a 13-Year-Old YouTube Star
Bits: Flinging Emojis, Twitch Chatters Revel as Julia Child Cooks
Instagram May Change Your Feed, Personalizing It With an Algorithm
ZTE Document Raises Questions About Huawei and Sanctions
Twitter Rules Out Long Tweets, Sticking to 140-Character Limit
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/technology/01vista.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/technology, position: Inv1
