New Version of Malicious Computer Program Is Released - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Science|New Version of Malicious Computer Program Is Released
New Version of Malicious Computer Program Is Released
The author or authors of a malicious software program that has infected more than 12 million computers since it was released last fall have begun distributing a new version of the program after computer security teams crippled the originals ability to do damage.The new version, known as Conficker B++, was spotted by security researchers at SRI International, who reported last week that the software was an effort by cybercriminals to find a new way to communicate with their programs after they had succeeded in infecting target computers.The Conficker code is intended to create compromised computers that work together in a network known as a botnet. The first two versions of the program contained a complex mechanism designed to permit the downloading of attack code that could presumably do anything from stealing passwords to sending spam e-mail messages to the millions of infected computers.However, in a cat-and-mouse game over the past month, computer security groups reverse-engineered the botnet software and uncovered the method it would have used to direct infected machines to new Internet addresses, where they could obtain software instructions. The security groups then froze the addresses before they could be used.Now, Confickers creators have begun distributing the new version of the program. It does not, however, update already infected computers, meaning that the process of spreading the program must be repeated.On Feb. 13, Microsoft and a group of partners offered a $250,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the creators of the Conficker program. The software, which exploits several weaknesses in Microsofts Windows operating system, has spread more aggressively than any other malware released in the last five years.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: New Version of Malicious Computer Program Is Released.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
