Chinas President Will Lead a New Effort on Cybersecurity - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Asia Pacific|Chinas President Will Lead a New Effort on Cybersecurity
Chinas President Will Lead a New Effort on Cybersecurity
President Xi Jinping, 60, on an unannounced visit in Beijing earlier this week.
President Xi Jinping is presiding over a new working group on cybersecurity and information security, China announced on Thursday, a sign that the Communist Party views the issue as one of the countrys most pressing strategic concerns.The government said Mr. Xi and two other senior leaders, Prime Minister Li Keqiang and Liu Yunshan, a member of the Politburo Standing Committee, would help draft national strategies and develop major policies in a field that might include protecting national secrets and developing digital defenses, among other goals.Efforts should be made to build our country into a cyberpower, Mr. Xi said in a statement released after the first meeting of the group on Thursday, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.The announcement comes as Mr. Xi is solidifying power, mounting a bold crackdown on corruption at the top of the Communist Party and pushing through overhauls aimed at strengthening and restructuring the countrys economy.In his first year in office, Mr. Xi, 60, seems determined to signal that he is firmly in control, amassing powers that some analysts say hark back to Deng Xiaopings tenure as the countrys supreme leader.
Late last year, Mr. Xi was named to head a leading working group on overall change and a state security committee that some experts say was inspired by the National Security Council, which advises American presidents. He has also presided over a government that has tightened control over the news media and Internet microblogs.The high-profile group on cybersecurity and so-called informatization could be aimed at grappling with one of the thornier issues that emerged in Mr. Xis first year in office: disputes with the United States over cyberattacks and debates over national security leaks.The Obama administration has strongly challenged China over the past few years to curb what it contends are Chinese cyberattacks on Americans and American companies doing business in China. Among the concerns is that Chinese hackers, possibly state sponsored, have been stealing corporate and national secrets.Beijing has responded that it, too, has been a frequent victim of cyberattacks, many originating in the United States. The Chinese government has also insisted that it opposes hacking in any form.The issue was one of the most delicate that came up in June when Mr. Xi joined President Obama for a summit
meeting at the Sunnylands estate in Rancho Mirage, Calif. Analysts say the talks between the two powers have grown more complicated since revelations that the National Security Agency has engaged in widespread spying around the world, even against American allies.Experts say the issue has major implications for large corporations in the United States and China, which could find themselves blocked from doing business in the other country in areas like telecommunications or Internet security.China now has the worlds second-largest economy, after the United States, and the largest number of Internet users, more than 600 million. But Chinese authorities complain that the countrys science and technology abilities lag far behind those of more developed countries.The government announcement on Thursday did not offer details about what cybersecurity and informatization would cover, but the government made clear that it was determined to strengthen its abilities.No Internet safety means no national security, Mr. Xi said Thursday. No informatization means no modernization.
A version of this article appears in print on February 28, 2014, on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Chinas President Will Lead a New Effort on Cybersecurity.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
