campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Bar1
The nation's largest computer makers have challenged a Clinton Administration plan to standardize a high-technology coding system that would let law-enforcement officials wiretap telephone calls and computer data transmissions.
The manufacturers say modern computer coding technology is essential for commerce and industry and cannot be restricted by the Government without hurting business.
The coding plan, developed secretly by the National Security Agency, was proposed last month by the National Institute for Standards and Technology, a Commerce Department agency. It calls for placing a special computer chip called the Clipper in a system that would encode telephone conversations.
Law-enforcement officials would be able to create a numeric "master key" that provides access to data and telephone transmissions by presenting a warrant to two separate agencies charged with protecting pieces of the key. The idea is that splitting the key would make it harder for Government officials or others to abuse the master key. Plan Called Unworkable
But the plan has drawn criticism from many computer researchers and civil libertarians who say that it would be unworkable and would have the potential to threaten privacy. On Thursday, 26 computer makers issued a statement criticizing the economic viability of the Clipper plan.
"We're going to work through our concerns with the Government," said Ollie Smoot, the executive vice president of the Computer and Business Equipment Manufacturers Association, a Washington trade organization. "The White House has made a commitment to listen."
The computer makers' statement was prepared for public testimony before the Computer System Security and Privacy Advisory Board, a Government review panel, which will begin three days of hearings on Wednesday on the Clipper plan and other public cryptography issues.
In their statement, the computer makers say that "encryption issues no longer can be treated as the province of only a small circle of national security, law-enforcement and technology experts."
Companies signing the statement included Apple Computer, A.T.& T., Compaq Computer, Digital Equipment, Hewlett-Packard, I.B.M., NCR, Tandem Computers and Xerox among others.
The association also raised questions about the viability of the coding plan, saying it would effectively handicap American computer and telecommunications equipment makers overseas. The group said that few foreign buyers would be willing to buy a coding device if the National Security Agency or law-enforcement agencies had access to a master key.
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Inv1
