Hackers Demand Ransom From TalkTalk, British Telecom Firm - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Technology|Hackers Demand Ransom From TalkTalk, British Telecom Firm
Hackers Demand Ransom From TalkTalk, British Telecom Firm
The chief executive of the British telecommunications provider TalkTalk, Dido Harding, said she did not know what customer information was stolen in a cyberattack on the company.
The chief executive of TalkTalk, a British telecommunications provider, said on Friday that she had received a ransom demand from hackers who had claimed responsibility for stealing data on some of the companys four million customers.TalkTalk, which offers cable and fixed-line services in Britain, said local authorities had opened a criminal investigation into the widespread data breach. The hackers may have gained access to personal data on the companys customers, including sensitive information like credit card details, dates of birth and addresses.Yes, we have been contacted, by I dont know whether its an individual or a group purporting to be the hacker, Dido Harding, TalkTalks chief executive, told the BBC.Ms. Harding did not provide further details on who the hackers could be.Blair Bishop, a TalkTalk spokeswoman, confirmed that the company had been contacted by someone claiming responsibility and seeking payment.In a statement, the broadband provider said it did not know how much of its users data had been compromised, and that the British police were leading the investigation into the matter. TalkTalk said it had become aware of the breach late on Wednesday.
We have also begun contacting all customers directly with full details, the company said in a statement.TalkTalks shares fell as much as 11 percent in morning trading in London, but recovered by the afternoon and were down 2.3 percent in midafternoon trading.Despite the claims of responsibility, it remained unclear whether the group that had contacted TalkTalk was behind the breach or whether the ransom demands were credible.Yet TalkTalks data breach  the third successful attack on the company in the past 12 months  is the latest in a number of online hackings that have affected a wide range of companies, including Target, Home Depot and JPMorgan Chase.It also potentially represents a high-profile example of hackers efforts to ransom stolen online data to companies or individuals.Such tactics, commonly known as ransomware, have often involved hackers encrypting peoples computer data and holding it hostage until a fee is paid. In certain instances, hackers have also stolen data directly from companies and demanded payment for not publishing the material online.Despite TalkTalks rapid response to the data breach, some users and security experts criticized the company for going public about the hacking before knowing all the details.The telecom providers efforts, however, come before planned changes in Europe that would force any company that has been affected by a data breach to inform privacy regulators within three days of the hacking or potentially face fines. Continue reading the main story
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
