In Internets Own Boy and Beyond, Hackers on Screen - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
In Internets Own Boy and Beyond, Hackers on Screen
Aaron Swartz, a hacker who later killed himself, in the documentary The Internets Own Boy.
Woe to the once-hallowed trickster. In ancient mythologies, the riddler-thief and agent of change held a position of prestige. Now, we dont know what to do with him. In our two Americas, we do black and white, either/or, with us or against us. The trickster is in between, both and neither, a character on the fringes.Take Aaron Swartz, the wunderkind programmer who helped lead the successful challenge to the overreaching Stop Online Piracy Act. In 2011, Mr. Swartz was accused of breaking into computer networks at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and downloading files from the academic journal hub Jstor. He was arrested on federal charges related to hacking, and was facing up to $1 million in fines and 35 years in prison when he committed suicide at the age of 26. How will he be remembered, and, separately, how should he be remembered? As a revolutionary, a villain or both?
David Strathairn, left, and Dan Aykroyd as part of a team of computer code breakers in Sneakers (1992).
A new documentary, The Internets Own Boy: The Story of Aaron Swartz (being released Friday), posits these questions and others as it tries to deal with the complex figure Mr. Swartz cut online and in real life. With dozens of testimonials from friends, lawyers and colleagues as well as significant video footage of Mr. Swartz himself, the filmmaker Brian Knappenberger aims to create a portrait of a tragic computer prodigy who became a lightning rod for debates about freedom of information, digital security and the function of the web. It is a fraught topic, and a subject all the more fascinating for the Wild Westness of the online space Swartz was helping pioneer.If tricksters are among us, they are probably online, in the digital forest where morally ambiguous gray hat hackers and bands of pranksters like Anonymous roam as if they were Robin Hood and his Merry Men. In films, at least, the hacker appears as a kind of complicated folk hero. Consider the mercenary bandits in Sneakers (1992) who thwart a domestic surveillance ploy, only to turn the Holy Grail of code breaking over to the National Security Agency. Following their rebel leader, Martin Bishop (Robert Redford), these sneakers are a unit of mostly reformed hooligans turned hackers and burglars who contract their services to banks and other secure institutions to reveal just how insecure those clients are. When we meet them, alls fairly right in the sneakers world, except that Marty has a past and a warrant out for his arrest. So, when two N.S.A. officers stroll into his office with a shady job offer, the lure of amnesty and financial reward is enough to persuade him to commit treason. Though the crews absolute morality is never entirely in question, it is easy to wonder whether they are breaking codes and laws for the seemingly paltry award or because they can.Of course, code breaking and slipping through gateways is the tricksters forte. Movies have always been a bit awed by the occult magic of computer whizzes, doing whatever it is they do with those letters on a screen, casting and cracking software spells. Sandra Bullocks programmer in The Net (1995) was deemed so dangerous to the players in a government conspiracy that they allocated what must have been millions of dollars to chase her. But if she was a de facto criminal, it was a corrupted and criminal system that had made her so. And it is only when she is forced outside the law that she can destroy the conspiracy Chimera to reclaim her life. Similarly, Alan Cummings hacker in Goldeneye the same year, much like Justin Longs in Live Free or Die Hard (2007) and Tim Robbinss ersatz Bill Gates in the wretched Antitrust (2001), had the power both to wreak and to prevent cataclysmic damage.
Keanu Reeves as Neo, the Christlike hacker hero, in The Matrix Reloaded (2003).
The ne plus ultra of this sort of morally slippery figure may be Julian Assange. In Bill Condons The Fifth Estate last year, Mr. Assange is presented as the 21st-century evolution of the truth-first newshound and his WikiLeaks as a sort of cyberfuturistic version of a newsroom. Overbearing to the point of megalomania, this Assange, played by Benedict Cumberbatch, sees himself as a crusader for Good, willing to sacrifice just about everything in its pursuit, and, fitting the classic trickster mold, utterly unaffected by the ripple effects of his actions. Alex Gibneys documentary We Steal Secrets, a portrait of Mr. Assange, is still more complicated. Some consider this Assange a monster, a threat to state security and maybe even a war criminal.
As interactivity has demystified technology, the gamer, the programmer and the hacker have ascended the hierarchy of film archetypes. No longer do we expect an orange-haired Seth Green (The Italian Job, 2003, and Enemy of the State, 1998) to bang heavily on keys in some remote location while the real hero does heroic stuff elsewhere. Beginning perhaps with The Matrix (1999), in which a Christlike Neo went digital for our sins and became a eucharistic amalgam of ones and zeros, hackers have been portrayed as heroes with the power to affect the outcome of their lives, and thus their movies. Lisbeth Salander in both versions of The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo hacks her way out of indentured servitude to her parole officer and then into avenging angel for the real hero Mikael Blomkvist. And it is a sort of rejected mans revenge that initially motivates the vicious Mark Zuckerberg character in The Social Network (2010) to design a site that lets him and others cyberevaluate their classmates.Even if hackers like Mr. Swartz are still a problem for us to reconcile in real life, maybe it is in the movies, with their capacity to empathize with the outr, their ability to present difficult, morally prismatic antiheroes, that we can properly come to terms with them. Especially now, in a world so vividly shaped by complex agents of change like Mr. Assange and Edward J. Snowden, we may need movies to help us comprehend our shades of gray.
A version of this article appears in print on June 22, 2014, on page AR17 of the New York edition with the headline: Telling Folk Heroes From Monsters.
The Internets Own Boy: The Story of Aaron Swartz
The Internets Own Boy: The Story of Aaron Swartz
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
