In Poll on Apple, Public Sides with F.B.I. - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Technology|In Poll on Apple, Public Sides with F.B.I.
We are now nearly a week into the public fight between Apple and the F.B.I. and neither side appears ready to back down.In case you missed it, the Federal Bureau of Investigation wants Apple to write software that would help investigators circumvent the security settings of an iPhone that belonged to one of the shooters in the San Bernardino, Calif., mass shooting.Technically, this isnt about breaking encryption, its about figuring out a password. The iPhone has a setting that would erase its data after 10 incorrect attempts at the password. What the F.B.I. wants, essentially, is for Apple to write software that would let it keep guessing until it hits the code.But here is where it gets tricky: Apple says that would essentially amount to writing software to ruin its own security. And though the F.B.I. says this is a one-shot deal important to a terrorism investigation, Apple executives believe writing that software would open a can of worms for law enforcement in the United States and around the world.There is also a free speech wrinkle to this fight. Many courts have ruled that writing software is akin to writing speech. Compelling Apple to do this, civil libertarians worry, would be like compelling Apple to say or write something in particular.
Still following? It seems many Americans are, and so far they seem to be siding with the F.B.I.  51 percent to 38 percent, according to a Pew Research Center survey released Monday.But Apple executives may be able to take comfort in the knowledge that a legal fight is not a popularity contest. Continue reading the main story
Insight and analysis on Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Apple and Justice Dept. Prepare to Face Off in Court
Flinging Emojis, Twitch Chatters Revel as Julia Child Cooks
Apples Engineers, if Defiant, Would be in Sync With Ethics Code
Apple Invokes Rights of the American People in Its Fight
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
