Ruling Clears Way for Jury Verdict on Former Goldman Sachs Programmer - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
DealBook|Ruling Clears Way for Jury Verdict on Former Goldman Sachs Programmer
Ruling Clears Way for Jury Verdict on Former Goldman Sachs Programmer
Sergey Aleynikov, right, and his lawyer, Kevin Marino, in 2012. Mr. Aleynikov was convicted in federal court, then acquitted.
The criminal case against Sergey Aleynikov  the former Goldman Sachs programmer who was convicted in federal court, then acquitted, only to be charged again in state court  will soon head to a jury after Mr. Aleynikovs last-ditch effort to toss out the case came up short.In a ruling on Monday in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, the judge overseeing the weekslong case rejected Mr. Aleynikovs request for a dismissal, handing a victory to prosecutors who accused Mr. Aleynikov of stealing secret source code from Goldmans computers. The ruling by Justice Daniel P. Conviser will now prolong a resolution to the long-running tale, which began nearly six years ago when Mr. Aleynikov was arrested on the Fourth of July holiday weekend at Newark Liberty International Airport.While some of Mr. Aleynikovs arguments appeared to resonate with Justice Conviser  the judge left open the possibility that, if the jury were to convict Mr. Aleynikov, he might overturn the verdict  the effort was considered a long shot. Judges rarely toss out cases midtrial, in part because prosecutors cannot appeal such decisions. Dismissing a case at this point is an extreme step that must happen only when trial evidence is not legally sufficient to establish the charges.And after nearly two hours of oral arguments on Monday, and a five-minute recess, Justice Conviser rebuffed Mr. Aleynikovs request.That, in my view, would be fundamentally unfair, Justice Conviser said, referring to the lack of appeal for prosecutors at the Manhattan district attorneys office. With all due respect to me, I sometimes get it wrong.
In an opinion read from the bench, Justice Conviser hinted at some skepticism about the prosecutions case, which hinges on varying interpretations of state laws.I think there certainly are issues about whether these charges are legally sufficient, Justice Conviser said.At one point during oral arguments, for example, Justice Conviser remarked that while he understood what prosecutors were saying on a particular issue, I dont agree with it.Mr. Aleynikovs lawyer, Kevin Marino, had asked the judge to toss out all three charges. While Mr. Aleynikov downloaded part of Goldmans high-frequency trading code onto his home computer before leaving for a new job, Mr. Marino claimed that doing so was a breach of the banks confidentiality agreement, not state laws.Citing trial testimony and past court rulings in the case, Mr. Marino argued that the prosecution failed to meet several elements of proof required by the laws, including that the download must have constituted a tangible reproduction and that Mr. Aleynikov must have acquired the major economic value of the code.With a booming voice and theatrical flair, Mr. Marino remarked that, while he would delight in delivering closing arguments in the case, that was one of the great pleasures in life that I could do without. (Mr. Marino is likely to present a small number of witnesses on Tuesday, leaving open the possibility that the case will go to the jury this week).Prosecutors argued that Mr. Marino was relying on federal court rulings, and that he misinterpreted the underlying state laws at play in the case. But after some stumbles in the case  and a number of court decisions against federal and state prosecutors who charged Mr. Aleynikov  there was reason to doubt whether Justice Conviser would have ruled on Monday to allow the case to proceed.In 2012, a federal appeals court in New York reversed Mr. Aleynikovs conviction, ruling that federal prosecutors had misapplied the corporate espionage laws against him. Then, after the Manhattan district attorneys office took up the case anew, a state court judge tossed out much of the evidence against him, finding that the F.B.I. had conducted an illegal search and arrest of Mr. Aleynikov.
Last week, Justice Conviser ruled that prosecutors could not call an expert witness to testify because they had failed to inform Mr. Marino of such plans.But on Monday, as the arguments wore on, Justice Conviser seemed unconvinced.Im here with my pants around my ankles, Mr. Marino said nearing the end of his argument, prompting Justice Conviser to reply: I dont think your pants are around their ankles.Mr. Marino quickly clarified: Well, theyre definitely slipping.
A version of this article appears in print on April 21, 2015, on page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: Ruling Clears Way for Jury Verdict on Former Goldman Sachs Programmer.
New Stumbles by Prosecutors in Trial of Former Goldman Programmer
New Stumbles by Prosecutors in Trial of Former Goldman Programmer
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
