Target Had Chance to Stop Breach, Senators Say - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|Target Had Chance to Stop Breach, Senators Say
Two Democratic senators on Wednesday criticized Targets management for not stopping a huge data breach of its systems, citing several missed opportunities to thwart the attack and protect customer data.Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia and chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, said at a hearing that the hacking last year of Target, one of the nations largest retailers, must be a clarion call to businesses, both large and small, that its time to invest in some changes.Senators Rockefeller and Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said that Targets failure to heed warning signs of incursions by cybercriminals ultimately was the fault of its top executives.The best technology in the world is useless unless theres good management, Mr. Blumenthal said. And here, to be quite blunt, there were multiple warnings from the companys anti-intrusion software; they were missed by management.John J. Mulligan, the chief financial officer of Target, told the committee that the company was fortifying its security systems.
Mr. Mulligan and other witnesses said they supported heightened federal regulations, including uniform standards on breach notifications, which are now governed by a mix of state laws.Mr. Mulligan, who began and ended his testimony with effusive apologies for the breach, outlined steps by company to improve data security, including strengthening authentication requirements and narrowing access to its systems.We know this has shaken their confidence, and we intend to earn it back, Mr. Mulligan said of Targets customers. Like you, we are asking hard questions about whether we could have taken different actions before the breach was discovered that would have resulted in different outcomes.
John Mulligan, second from left, Targets chief financial officer, testified Wednesday before the Senate Commerce Committee.
The breach at Target exposed payment card information of 40 million people and personal information, like phone numbers and email addresses, of 70 million people, making it one of the largest breaches in corporate history. Target has said it believes there is an overlap of at least 12 million people between the groups.Since Target acknowledged the breach last December, similar incidents have been disclosed by other retailers, including Neiman Marcus and Michaels, a chain of arts and craft stores. One loose band of online criminals is believed to be culpable for many of these crimes, but no arrests have been made.A Commerce Committees staff report said Target may have missed several chances to head off the attack, including by not responding to warning signs from its malware detection systems and not establishing more robust protections against suspicious activities, which could have raised red flags when data was uploaded to a server in Russia, for example.Also testifying at the hearing was Peter J. Beshar, the general counsel of Marsh & McLennan, who spoke about insurance against data breaches. In an earnings report last month, Target said that it spent $61 million in the fourth quarter on data breach expenses, before taxes, and expected to receive $44 million in insurance payments. Target executives have predicted those costs will continue.Several Democratic senators are backing a bill that would give the Federal Trade Commission oversight authority to regulate data security standards and
require breached companies to notify affected consumers.Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, pressed Mr. Mulligan and Ellen Richey, the chief enterprise risk officer at Visa, unsuccessfully for estimates of how much fraud had resulted from the data breach at Target, and asked which institutions would end up holding the bag.Senator McCaskill said the bag would largely fall in the laps of credit unions and local banks, rather than those of companies like Target and Visa.I think it is confusing to the consuming public where this loss falls and where the costs are absorbed, she said. I think its very important that the risk be borne by those who must engage in the activity to protect.Early this month, Beth M. Jacob, Targets senior technology executive, resigned. She was the first senior executive to step down in the wake of the breach.Representatives from Snapchat, an app that allows users to send videos and pictures that are quickly deleted, declined an invitation to testify at the hearing, Senator Rockefeller said. In January, a group of security researchers announced they had hacked into Snapchat.
A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2014, on page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Target Had Chance to Stop Breach, Senators Say.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
