Target Gives a Defense of Its Efforts on Security - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|Target Gives a Defense of Its Efforts on Security
In advance of next weeks annual shareholders meeting, Target on Monday defended its management and oversight of customer data despite the extensive hacking it experienced last year.In a letter to shareholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Roxanne Austin, the interim chairwoman of Targets board, listed steps the company had taken toward increasing information security since the breach last year, and she described the security apparatus in place before the attack.Breaches are occurring across the economy and are affecting a wide range of victims including the U.S. government, the technology and defense industries and more traditional companies, like retailers, the letter said. Your board fully recognizes the importance of its oversight responsibilities in this area. Under the boards leadership and oversight, Target took significant action to address evolving cybercrime risks before the breach.Last week, an influential shareholder advisory group, Institutional Shareholder Services, said that the majority of Targets directors did not deserve to be re-elected because they had not provided sufficient risk oversight before the breach. I.S.S. recommended that shareholders vote against seven of the 10 board members, including Ms. Austin. Before the breach, which exposed the data of tens of millions of Target customers, the company spent hundreds of millions of dollars on network security in areas like technology and personnel and had a staff of more than 300 information security employees, Ms. Austin said. That was double the staff it had in that area five years ago. It also required data security training for all employees every year and had a security operations center staffed at all hours to keep an eye out for suspicious activity, among other measures.Many information security experts, however, have said the company did not have certain important safeguards measures in place. And in March, the retailer acknowledged that its computer system had sent out alerts of suspicious activity during the breach, but that those warnings were ultimately ignored.
Ms. Austins letter also highlighted steps the company had taken in response since the breach was revealed in December, including accelerating its conversion to a more secure payment-card technology on its branded cards and in its stores and hiring a new chief information officer.The letter did not address other significant personnel changes made at the company in recent months, including the resignation of the chief executive, Gregg Steinhafel. A search is underway for his replacement. The chief information officer at the time of the breach, Beth M. Jacob, resigned as well.
A version of this article appears in print on June 3, 2014, on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Target Gives a Defense of Its Efforts on Security.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
