campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Bar1
THE EXECUTIVE COMPUTER; Hackers, Thieves and Carelessness
THE hackers who break into a company's computers are usually on the intellectual equivalent of joyrides. Using their home computers and modems, they prowl the electronic avenues searching for an unlocked computer with the ''key in the ignition'' - one with an easily defeated security system. Once inside, they take the computer for a spin.
Most hackers are relatively benign, said David R. Wilson, the national director of information security services for Ernst & Whinney. For them, breaking into computers is sport and access to data is merely the scorecard. While hackers occasionally cause considerable damage, ''in real terms they pose less of a risk than insiders or knowledgeable outsiders,'' Mr. Wilson said. Those intruders have enough understanding of the operation to exploit the data through espionage, fraud or sabotage.
''The greatest threat from hackers is that they provide a roadmap for knowledgeable outsiders to break into a system,'' said Mr. Wilson, whose consulting group advises business clients in both technical and organizational approaches to computer security. The roadmaps can be literal: Hackers occasionally boast of their accomplishments and post the details on an electronic bulletin board. More frequently, publicity about the hackers' penetration of a system will encourage others to try.
''Time and time again, when we've been called in the client says, 'We've had a hacker in here and we're uncomfortable.' '' And rightfully so. If a hacker can penetrate a company's computer system, so can a competitor or an insider.
According to a recent survey by Ernst & Whinney, executives are most concerned about protecting their sensitive computer data from the competition. Customers were next on their list of potential threats, followed by employees, suppliers, public interest groups and foreign governments.
Those priorities represent a change, Mr. Wilson said. In the past the same executives considered employees the biggest threat. ''Take all of the fraud and intentional incidents,'' he said, ''and they won't begin to cause as much damage as mistakes cause every day.''
A careless employee can cripple a business inadvertently by sending sensitive data to the wrong files, entering incorrect data - or lending a secure password to a co-worker not entitled to the same computer access. The end result can be as disastrous as computer fraud or sabotage.
To guard against carelessness, companies should place a high priority on training for new employees. And to protect against improper activities, that instruction should include a clear statement on ethics and computer law and how the company will deal with employee infractions.
''The goal is to have each employee recognize that if he or she has a PC or terminal on the desk, it comes with certain responsibilities,'' Mr. Wilson said.
But there is no foolproof way to guarantee the integrity of data against either intentional or accidental abuse. The best a company can do is to minimize its risks.
A SIGNIFICANT step in that direction is to assure that responsibility for computer security rests near the top of an organization. The chief executive would do well to acknowledge that if the company is using computers, the odds are that they are being abused in some way. More than half of all companies in the Ernst & Whinney survey reported that they suffered financial losses because of computer security problems.
Mr. Wilson suggested a step-by-step procedure for improving computer security, starting with making a determination of what needs to be protected.
The next step is to figure out whom you're trying to protect the data from. Competitors? Customers? Reporters? Foreign spies? Different tactics can then be developed to meet the threat, ranging from encryption to tighter screening of visitors.
Consider what would happen if the system were paralyzed for a day, or a week, by accident or intent. Is there backup, including a disaster recovery plan? What would happen if an essential data-processing employee quit in a huff or were hit by a truck?
Then look around the company, and analyze the environment and the control structure that has been established.
''Senior management ought to ask themselves, 'What is really important to me?' '' Mr. Wilson suggested. '' 'What have I implemented to protect myself?' If the answers are vague, they probably have a problem. Good security is implicit and clear.''
Can unauthorized or unscrupulous people use the company's computer network to their advantage, or to get to other computer systems in a way that had not been anticipated? Is there anyone in the organization at a high level who is responsible for data security? The security director has to have a high level of visibility, and the authority for establishing and enforcing policy.
That responsibility should not be given as an afterthought or add-on to some data-processing gnome who bats around bits and bytes.
Mr. Wilson said senior management should then ask, ''Have I established a concept of accountability for information and information control throughout the organization?'' Look at the ways in which integrity is assured and checked. What controls are in place? Who has access to the system? Is access well controlled? Once a person has access, can you control what he or she does? Are the controls reasonable?
Some controls are fairly technical, involving coding of data or the latest in biometric sensors - fingerprints, voice patterns and retina scans, for example. Others can be mundane, as in password protection. But Mr. Wilson argued that ''password systems have such fundamental flaws that we shouldn't be using them.'' Besides, once a password is compromised, the security damage can continue for months before the company determines the problem.
The best time to begin thinking about computer security is before a problem develops, perhaps even before the organization has decided on which computer and information system to use. ''The assessments we've talked about so far are of existing systems,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''But the problems of security are getting so complex and difficult that we have to start looking at systems in the design and development stages.''
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Inv1
