campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Bar1
THE EXECUTIVE COMPUTER; When the Password is a Passkey
THE password for today is ''computer security.'' Members of a West German computer club disclosed earlier this month that they had successfully thwarted the security systems of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's computer network in Europe. For three months this summer the young computer enthusiasts, or hackers, had virtually unrestricted access to the agency's scientific data.
The break-in made headlines here, but the damage was relatively trivial compared to the computer security losses sustained every day by American businesses. According to a recent study by Ernst & Whinney, American businesses lose $3 billion to $5 billion each year to computer fraud. And although it is impossible to put a dollar value on it, the theft of information is far more devastating.
Specialists in computer security say that for every well-publicized case of teen-age hackers breaking into computers - NASA, the nuclear weapons facility at the Los Alamos National Laboratory or the records center at Memorial Sloan-Kettering have all been victimized - there are probably 99 cases of employees breaking into their own company computers for fraudulent, criminal or simply mischievous purposes.
This is nothing new. Computer crime is as old as computers. In my youth, back in those dark ages before personal computers, some classmates developed quite a profitable extracurricular career as reprogrammers. Unhappy with that D in Western Civ? For 50 bucks they would break into the university computer and change the grade on your official transcript to a C. Those chaps also saw the value of diversification. Using a ''blue box'' of their own construction to bypass the normal telephone billing aparatus, they sold ''discount'' long-distance telephone calls to anywhere in the world, presumably so you could call your parents to brag about your good grades.
They were caught eventually, not by the university but by Ma Bell. The phone company agreed not to press charges if the young geniuses would explain how they had cracked the system. This saved the hackers from Leavenworth, and the phone company from future embarrassment.
One of my pals - an archetypal hacker with thick glasses, nerdy clothes and a near-total disregard for personal hygiene - drooled with glee as he described his session with the phone company's computer security personnel. They didn't have the technical knowledge to understand just how vulnerable they were, he said, but they were too embarrassed to admit it, so they feigned amusement. Further, he said, they inadvertently gave him password access to the highest levels of the company's computer system.
To a large extent, that's the same way it works today with corporate computer crime.
Dr. Harold Joseph Highland, editor in chief of the journal Computers & Security and emeritus professor of computer science at the State University of New York, said the problem of computer security usually arises from the attitude of company executives.
''Most people see computer security as if it were a joke,'' Dr. Highland said. ''This is why hackers are able to get through.'' Dr. Highland added that he has no sympathy for the organizations that are penetrated, ''because you find they are exceedingly careless.''
AS AN example, he cited the members of the computer security team at an unnamed brokerage house - ''one of the four biggest in New York'' - who held a meeting over lunch at a crowded Manhattan restaurant. By dessert came around, he said, anyone at a nearby table would have heard a list of new secret passwords that could have compromised the entire system.
''But most corporations realize that hackers are a nuisance, not a real threat,'' Dr. Highland continued. ''The inside threat is probably 99 percent, and of that 99 percent, 60 percent to 70 percent are upper-echelon employees. In a company with a good security system, it is usually someone who has very high authorization who will be the culprit.''
We'll discuss how to deal with high-level inside threats in next week's column, but for now let's look at password security, often a company's first level of defense.
Passwords are the secret keys that allow access to computers. For hackers and naughty employees, they can unlock an electronic treasure chest of information.
Passwords can be as simple as an employee's name, or they can be arcane and complex. The best ones, naturally, are those hardest for someone to guess, and subsequently the hardest to remember. That underscores a fundamental problem with computer security: the harder you make it for outsiders to get in, the less ''friendly'' the system becomes for legitimate users.
Many friendly companies allow employees to choose their own passwords, typically a combination of letters and numbers. Birthdays, children's names, addresses, license plate numbers and other common information are popular choices. As a result it is not difficult to guess a password if you know some basic, easily learned information about the user.
Dr. Highland favors unusual yet personal passwords. For example, his mother often muttered a phrase in Gaelic that translates, roughly, as ''same to you.'' Although most of us are familiar with the sentiment, few are familiar with the Gaelic spelling. In another case he used the first letters of the first eight numbers in the Finnish language, yielding a nonsensical password that cannot even be pronounced.
Because the system must be available occasionally to outside technicians and other people who need infrequent access, most systems also accept a handful of general purpose passwords. I am always astonished at how many systems allow ''secret'' and ''password.''
Some companies change these passwords several times a day, while others go for years between housecleanings. The longer a password has been operational, the more likely it has been compromised.
Lists of known passwords, as well as lists of telephone numbers that will gain access to a computer system, circulate freely on the electronic ''bulletin boards'' used by hackers. Most reputable bulletin boards do not allow such information to be posted, but it shows up nonetheless.
By changing passwords often, and stressing the importance of password security to employees, companies can take a small step toward computer security. More steps will be discussed next week.
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Inv1
