A Tour of Kurt Andersens Home Office in Brooklyn - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Mens Style|A Tour of Kurt Andersens Home Office in Brooklyn
Kurt AndersenAge 61Occupation Author and host of the public radio program Studio 360Location BrooklynHis Favorite Room In the 19th-century brownstone he and his wife bought 25 years ago, Mr. Andersen has converted a second-floor room into his home office. With its shelves of books, paperwork-covered desk and tchotchkes like an alien doll and a synthetic human mask, the office is a pleasingly cluttered free-fire zone, the author said.As a writer, did you fantasize about having a home office?I didnt fantasize about any of it. The idea that I could own a house in New York was not on my list of fantasies. We had a baby and then another one imminent. We lived in the East Village, and not only did we not have enough room in our apartment, but it was the height of the crack epidemic. In order to try to avoid moving out of the city, we came to Brooklyn.You know, in 1989, you sort of didnt go to Brooklyn. In fact, it was an admission of defeat if you moved here.
A portrait of an interesting man in his living space (or favorite place), complete with a Q & A.
A Tour of Pastry Chef David Lebovitzs Home Kitchen in Paris
A Paris Apartment for the Herms Mens Wear Designer
What do you love about your office?The fact that its my place. And literally that its this dark color, which makes it feel like a giant velvet chair. In New York, you make your peace with not having space. Once I did have a separate office, it was amazing.Some people cant work from home. The TV or the refrigerator beckons, or their children barge in.Because Id had real jobs that I had to show up for every day, I baked in that discipline. You get up, you have breakfast, you start to work.But for a 4-year-old, thats hard to understand. Daddys here all day. What do you mean I cant come in? Thats tough and sad at first, and then they get used to it. And then they grow up thinking you dont work, you just stay home all day.I have to ask: Whats with the baby doll on the fireplace mantel?Apparently, as a very small boy I carried it around and loved it. It was called Boy Doll. I had matching onesies, cutely. But I dont remember loving it.Tell me about that human mask on the bureau.We did a piece on the radio show about this artist who takes DNA from whatever, and then based on what she can discern from the DNA creates those faces. Without telling her who it was, my producers gave her some of my DNA.Do you see any semblance to yourself?Im white! But I like it. Its creepy.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
