One Cocktail, Two Spirits: Bartenders Go for a Blend - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Food|One Cocktail, Two Spirits: Bartenders Go for a Blend
One Cocktail, Two Spirits: Bartenders Go for a Blend
Aaron Post, the owner of Valkyrie in Tulsa, Okla., blends Elijah Craig bourbon and Rittenhouse straight rye in the bars old-fashioned.
When youre ordering an old-fashioned, the first and main question facing you is this: bourbon or rye? At Valkyrie, a bar in Tulsa, Okla., you dont have to make that decision. You get both.
The house old-fashioned has two whiskeys: an ounce of Elijah Craig bourbon and an ounce of Rittenhouse straight rye.For Aaron Post, the owner of Valkyrie, one whiskey simply wouldnt do for his bars version of such a classic drink. My intention was to give more depth of flavor to an old-fashioned while maintaining the integrity of the drink and its ingredients, he said.In recent decades, with the growing availability of single-source and small-batch spirits, American drinkers have been trained to believe in the virtues of unblended liquors, savored for their purity  even in cocktails, where bar customers often ask for a particular brand to anchor that martini or manhattan.
But Valkyrie is just one of many cocktail bars where you can now order what sounds like a simple, straightforward classic and get a not-so-simple mixture of liquors.
From the Long Island Bar in Brooklyn to the Esquire Tavern in San Antonio, bartenders are combining brands taken from the same spirit category, searching for a signature blend that answers their particular demands of what a whiskey, rum, vermouth or gin should be when applied to a cocktail.One of the longest practitioners of this technique is the Teardrop Cocktail Lounge in Portland, Ore., which has been pouring its own in-house amalgams of various alcohols almost since it opened in 2007. Its house whiskey is a combination of Elijah Craig, Rittenhouse, Buffalo Trace and Four Roses bourbons. It is used in old-fashioneds, whiskey sours and other whiskey cocktails.
It would seem pretentious to say were making a better whiskey, said the owner, Daniel Shoemaker. Were making a catchall whiskey. Our goal was to make something as close to universal, with universal applications. (If people order a manhattan, theyll get a vermouth composed of Cinzano Rosso and Punt e Mes.)For her gimlet at the Vine, a bar in Chelsea, Katie Stipe uses both Plymouth Gin from England and Perrys Tot, an overproof navy strength gin made in Brooklyn. The compounding got her the best of Plymouth, that kind of silky roundness and balance, and the robust, spicy, juniper-forward flavor of Perrys.
The Esquire Tavern recently started using two house rum blends. No. 1 contained Plantation Pineapple Rum Stiggins Fancy, Smith & Cross and Hamilton Overproof 151. No. 2 is made of Cana Brava, Hamilton Jamaican Pot Still Black Rum and Hamilton Overproof 151.
Rum blend No. 2 is a great style to get into some tiki drinks, said Houston Eaves, the beverage director, who developed the blends with Myles Worrell, the Esquires bar manager. No. 1 has a certain richness that works well with certain stirred cocktails.
Some people have mixed feelings about the mixing. Lynn House, a bartender, now works as the national brand educator for Heaven Hill, which makes Elijah Craig bourbon and Rittenhouse rye.
I think any brand takes pride in what their brand is, she said. A lot of work has gone into that flavor profile. Obviously, from a brand perspective, youre happy when theyre using your brand. But when they blend it, it becomes their brand, rather then your brand.The big spirit labels can perhaps take some solace, then, that blending doesnt always pan out. At Valkyrie, Mr. Post didnt have the same kind of luck finding the ultimate mixture for martinis that he did with old-fashioneds. Ive wasted a lot of gin trying to find a combo that heightens any classic, he said.Recipe: Valkyrie House Old-Fashioned
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
