FIFA Match Agent Pleads Guilty in U.S. Corruption Case - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Soccer|FIFA Match Agent Pleads Guilty in U.S. Corruption Case
FIFA Match Agent Pleads Guilty in U.S. Corruption Case
Miguel Trujillo leaving federal court in Brooklyn on Tuesday. He pleaded guilty to money laundering conspiracy and wire fraud conspiracy.
The Department of Justice announced a new defendant in its corruption case focused on world soccer on Tuesday: Miguel Trujillo, a Colombian citizen working in Florida as a soccer consultant and agent licensed by FIFA, the sports global governing body, to arrange matches between national associations.In federal court in Brooklyn on Tuesday, Mr. Trujillo, the 42nd defendant in the United States continuing FIFA case, pleaded guilty to money laundering conspiracy and wire fraud conspiracy, felonies that the federal authorities had traced to Queens.He admitted to paying hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes to world soccer officials related to negotiations for media and marketing contracts and international friendly matches.Mr. Trujillo, 65, also pleaded guilty to having filed a false tax return and agreed to forfeit $495,000 to the government.
FIFA, Knowing Prosecutors Are Watching, Makes Some ChangesFEB. 27, 2016
The far-reaching FIFA case, announced last spring, has roots in tax fraud: Chuck Blazer, an American and former FIFA official, first caught federal investigators attention in part because of his failure to file personal income tax returns. Mr. Blazer secretly pleaded guilty in 2013 and is among 15 convicted defendants in the case, including two corporations.The continuing investigation has been a coordinated effort by the United States Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York, the New York field office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Services Criminal Investigation Unit.Joseph Rosenbaum, a Miami lawyer representing Mr. Trujillo, declined to comment on the guilty plea Tuesday. Mr. Trujillo awaits sentencing, as do all others who have pleaded guilty in the case, including Mr. Blazer.Records indicate that Mr. Trujillo has lived in Palm Beach County since at least 2000. He is no longer listed on FIFAs website as a licensed match agent, of which there are currently 95 around the world; match agents hold the exclusive ability to set up friendly matches and tournaments between national soccer teams or clubs from different confederations.Mr. Trujillo specifically admitted to paying bribes, on behalf of several sports marketing companies and his own business, to officials of FIFA, Concacaf  soccers governing body for North America, Central America and the Caribbean, which figures prominently into the Justice Departments case  and four soccer federations in Central America and the Caribbean.He is not related to Hector Trujillo, a Guatemalan judge and soccer official who was also charged by the United States in connection with the FIFA investigation and is currently out on bail in Newark.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
