For an Author in the Audience, the Thrill of Hearing Your Book Invoked - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Theater|For an Author in the Audience, the Thrill of Hearing Your Book Invoked
For an Author in the Audience, the Thrill of Hearing Your Book Invoked
Linda Lavin as Anna and John Procaccino as Phil/David in Our Mothers Brief Affair.
Just as Act I of Richard Greenbergs play Our Mothers Brief Affair is about to end, Anna Cantors secret paramour confesses that the name she knows him by, Phil Weintraub, is actually a pseudonym.
Who are you? she asks tentatively.Phil holds Anna tight. David Greenglass, he whispers.Suddenly the action stops, and the lights go up. Annas two grown children, Abby and Seth, step to the front of the stage and address the audience.For those of you who know who David Greenglass is or was, we congratulate you on your historical memory, Abby says.For those of you who are thinking, Oy vey, again with the Rosenbergs, our apologies, Seth says.For the whole story, Abby continues, I refer you to Sam Robertss excellent account of the case, The Brother. On opening night in January, I almost jumped out of my seat. Im no math whiz, but I could project potential book sales: 650 seats in the Samuel J. Friedman Theater, eight performances weekly, six weeks before completing its limited run. (The play closed on Sunday.) All without having even met the playwright.My wife immediately nudged me back to earth. This is not Hamilton,  she said. Youre not Ron Chernow.Still, when I was invited to the show by the Manhattan Theater Club, I was just as unsuspecting as Anna Cantor. All I was told was that the play had something to do with my book, The Brother. I was completely unprepared for Phil Weintraubs revelation and for what happened next.So was the audience. How many had heard of David Greenglass, much less met him, as I had? Which is why Abby and Seth interrupted the action to nimbly recap the Rosenberg case:David was an Army machinist working on the atomic bomb at Los Alamos during World War II. His sister, Ethel Rosenberg, and her husband, Julius, persuaded him to spy for the Soviet Union. Confronted years later by the F.B.I., he implicated the Rosenbergs to spare his wife from prosecution and himself from the death penalty. The couple were convicted of espionage conspiracy, in part because of his perjured testimony, and were executed.But how did my book become a plot twist  and, in the finale to Act II, an actual physical prop? I waited until the play closed so that twist was no longer ripe for spoiling  to reveal the answer here. A friend had told Mr. Greenberg years ago about a womans indelible guilty secret. He was mulling it as the basis for a play.
Review: Our Mothers Brief Affair, a Play About Unmoored LivesJAN. 20, 2016
Three Theater Stalwarts, Together at Last, Talk MomDEC. 30, 2015
Then I read your book, he told me, and it overlapped. I decided that I wanted to put them together. The really idiotic part was I didnt realize they had incredible parallels.
The conceit of the play is that were never sure whether Anna, played by Linda Lavin, had her brief affair with Phil or with David.Did she conjure Greenglass during one of her periodic deathbed scenes to gain a measure of celebrity? (Seth writes obituaries for a living, oddly, as I do now: Creative writers are always running out of material, Anna tells Seth. You never will, will you?) Or, did she invoke that singular historic figure to assuage her own guilt about a secret?Annas secret was the story Mr. Greenberg had heard from his friend: One night, a self-absorbed young girl pretended not to hear her sweet, sick sister ask for a glass of water in the bedroom they shared. Three days later, the sister died.So maybe, Seth speculates, to ease her guilt, his mother turned this random lover into the necessary lover?But when Phil/David prescribes self-forgiveness, the parallel between denying your sister a drink and sending her to the electric chair appalls Seth. May I, at this moment, he says, bring up the concept of scale?Mr. Greenberg originally called his play My Mothers Brief Affair With David Greenglass, but figured that the title might betray his plot. Still, much of his potential audience wasnt alive when the Rosenbergs were executed in 1953.Ms. Lavin was, but even she didnt recognize Greenglasss name at first. Nor did Greg Keller, who plays Seth. (Barney Greengrass, Mr. Keller said, referring to the Upper West Sides self-proclaimed sturgeon king, I knew well.) Even to Anna, Phils revelation rings only a dim bell.David Greenglass? she asks. From P.S. 12? The nose-picker?In 1960, when Mr. Greenglass was released after nearly 10 years in federal prison, he expressed one goal. All I want, he said, is to be forgotten. Yet for anyone who did remember, his name became synonymous with the betrayal of a sister.Mr. Greenberg was reminded of that by my book. (As were John Hancock and Dorothy Tristan a decade ago, when they adapted The Brother largely as a two-hander, a meeting of subject and reporter. Observing myself as an observer was even weirder than watching Mr. Greenbergs play.)This seminal Cold War story is also about family dysfunction, about ordinary people suddenly exposed by faith and by fate upon a world stage. Some soared. Most foundered.Greenglass happened into the most profound kind of exposure, and thats what fascinated me about using him, Mr. Greenberg said. Thats what underlies most of us: a gift for not being tested.Or, as Anna says magnanimously: He was just a boy from the neighborhood. He meant well.So with whom did Anna have the affair, Phil or David?By me, it was David, Mr. Greenberg said. Ive decided, in the real world, no, but in the real world of the play, yes.In the end, does it matter? There was enough guilt and betrayal to go around. As Anna admits, David was sometimes fast-and-loose with the truth. Its a characteristic of spies, she says. And lovers.
A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2016, on page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: Of Betrayal, Guilt and a Startled Author.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
