Frank Zappas House Can Be Yours for $9 Million - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Media|Frank Zappas House Can Be Yours for $9 Million
The proof sheet from the photo shoot for Frank Zappas 1967 album Lumpy Gravy. His selections are in red wax pencil.
For decades, Gail Zappa, the widow of the iconoclastic rock musician Frank Zappa, was known as a fierce guardian of her husbands business empire. But before she died last year at 70, Mrs. Zappa granted the filmmaker Alex Winter rare access to her husbands vault, the enormous media archive kept in the basement of the Zappa family home in Los Angeles, as part of Mr. Winters latest project: a documentary about Zappas life and music.
Were private people, but we want the story to be told, Ahmet Zappa, one of Franks four children and a trustee of the Zappa Family Trust, said in a statement about the film.
Review: In Scary Old Sex, Arlene Heyman Mines the Details
On Tuesday, Mr. Winter, who has made well-received documentaries like Downloaded, about the Napster phenomenon  but who may still be best known to a generation of moviegoers as Bill from the 1989 comedy Bill & Teds Excellent Adventure  will introduce a Kickstarter campaign to help finance the Zappa movie and also preserve the archive. For $9 million, one generous supporter could own the Zappa house (minus its contents, including the vault).Mr. Winter spoke this week about the film and the archive. Here are edited excerpts from that conversation.Q. How did this film and the archive project come about?A. I was coming off my previous doc, Deep Web, and starting to put the next movie together. One thing that kept coming up was that there had never been a definitive Frank Zappa documentary. I was intent on not making a musical biopic, but making something thats more like a novelistic examination of this man, something that would dig into the cultural aspects of him, the political aspects. Thats what we pitched to Gail, and she loved it.Gail granted us, for the first time, access to the Zappa family vault, which is literally a vault  its a giant, floor-to-ceiling space under their house in the Hollywood Hills that is filled with 40-odd years of unseen and unheard material. Its stuff that he wrote, family stuff, art, music and film. Some of it had been preserved by the family, but its not been thoroughly archived.How bad a shape is the archive in?My guess is that the bulk of it is probably pretty good. Its also deteriorating, and possibly some of it is gone. Certain types of media are more frail than others  the reel-to-reel audio stuff, thats a very flimsy and fragile material. There is a lot of digital stuff, but some of it is in formats that do not exist anymore.Its the way the whole house is. I was walking around with some of the family members and they were like, You know, its not just the vault. They started opening cabinets, and theres media everywhere  three-quarter-inch tape, cassettes, DAT masters. It just goes on and on.That led to the Kickstarter. Frankly, it was just terrifying to see that there and think this is all of Franks life, and its going to be gone.How was it dealing with Gail Zappa? In a statement you are very diplomatic in calling her notoriously discerning.
Im a Gail fan. Does that mean I agree with her on everything? Im the guy who made the Napster movie. But she was not an unreasonable person at all, and thats what gets misconstrued. You have to remember the times that she grew up through. Specifically, she ran the Zappa business. She was navigating a very complex and treacherous landscape, which is what the music industry is, and she had learned to be fiercely controlling and independent in order to keep the thing alive.Where did the idea of selling the Zappa house for $9 million come from?Its a bargain! In the Zappa family, the kids are all grown up and have their own lives. With Gail no longer here, theres nobody there [at the house]. So we proposed to them that if this thing is going to get sold anyway, why dont we make it part of our campaign? For the real giant Zappa fans out there, theyre going to get the house that has the Utility Muffin Research Kitchen, the house that has the vault in it and all this incredible history. They were there from 1968 on.What happens to the $9 million if somebody buys the house? Does it go into the making if the film, or does that money go to the Zappa family?It goes to both. We would give big portion of that to the family for the value of the house, and then do everything we need to do toward making the archive safe and making the movie we want to make. This would allow us to start the movie immediately.What do you want the film to portray?Frank is someone that a large part of the population absolutely adores, and probably a healthy part of the population doesnt like at all. Thats really compelling to me. There are so many paradoxical aspects to him that represent the paradoxical nature of that period of history. On the macro side, I love what that allows me to do as a documentarian. But on the micro side, Im just really fascinated by who he was.How will whats in the vault help you make the movie?Because a lot of it is personal. Its not just outtakes from records. He would record video around the house. If NBC Radio came over to get one sound bite, he would set up a video camera and record the entire interview. No one has ever seen that stuff. Its all down in the basement, and there is tons of it.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
