United Continental Shareholders Turn to Bethune to Lead Revolt - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
DealBook|United Continental Shareholders Turn to Bethune to Lead Revolt
United Continental Shareholders Turn to Bethune to Lead Revolt
By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and JAD MOUAWADMARCH 8, 2016
Gordon Bethune, the former chief of Continental Airlines, said that the current board of United Continental has a country club atmosphere.
United Continental is facing an insurrection among its shareholders  led by the well-regarded former chief executive of Continental Airlines, Gordon M. Bethune.
Mr. Bethune is one of six director candidates put forward on Tuesday by two hedge funds, Altimeter Capital Management and PAR Capital Management, which together own about 7.1 percent of Uniteds shares.The decision by the activist hedge funds to raise a public challenge to the airlines board comes after Uniteds announcement on Monday to add four independent directors.The contest comes at an awkward time for United, which appointed a new chief executive in September after the surprise dismissal of Jeff Smisek during a corruption investigation involving officials at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. It also comes just days after the airline said that the new chief executive, Oscar Munoz, would return to work full time on March 14 after undergoing heart transplant surgery in January.
The Rail Executive United Airlines Tapped to Lift Its FortunesSEPT. 9, 2015
DealBook: As Oil Prices Fall, Airfares Still Stay HighMARCH 23, 2015
United and Continental Agree to $3 Billion MergerMAY 2, 2010
In a statement, Altimeter and PAR said that they chose to begin their proxy fight after weeks of discussions with Uniteds board. The hedge funds also described the airlines board expansion as a knee-jerk response to the stockholders efforts.
United had the worst customer satisfaction of any North American airline, with the exception of the low-cost carrier Frontier, according to J.D. Powers 2015 ranking.
The activists argue that United has badly underperformed over the last five years, despite its name recognition and size, which the hedge funds argue arises from its board.We have no more confidence that you will act responsibly in the future (even with yesterdays announcement) than we have evidence that you have done so in the past, Brad Gerstner, the chief executive of Altimeter, and Paul A. Reeder, the chief executive of PAR, wrote in a public letter to Uniteds board.Henry L. Meyer III, the airlines nonexecutive chairman, replied in a statement, We are deeply disappointed that after United attempted to engage in a constructive, good-faith dialogue with PAR and Altimeter, repeatedly communicated our willingness to make meaningful changes in our board, publicly announced our intention to name four new independent directors with deep relevant experience and named three of them yesterday, PAR and Altimeter have unilaterally taken this hostile action with no concern that a proxy fight could distract the company from executing on Oscars strategic plan.In an interview, Mr. Bethune said he had agreed to join the slate to become nonexecutive chairman for two years to help the board set clear goals and motivate employees. He said that before Uniteds latest nominations, the companys board lacked directors with experience running an airline.Mr. Bethune wrote a book called From Worst to First, about his experience turning around Continental Airlines in the 1990s. He said United needed to perform better than its three main rivals  Delta, American and Southwest.They need to beat the competition, he said. If youre in a horse race and youre in fourth place, youre not winning.
I am willing to help, he said. And I do know the front end from the back of an airplane, and that would be a novel experience for the board.
Mr. Bethune, who is 74, said his age would not be an issue despite the companys mandatory retirement limit of 75. The board, he said, could simply extend the limit for one year to allow him to stay on.Mr. Bethune, who is serving on the boards of three companies  Honeywell, Prudential and Sprint  plans to retire from two this year but will remain on the board of Sprint. When he ran Continental, he appointed both Mr. Munoz and Mr. Meyer, the current chairman of United, to the airlines board.I dont need this, he said, and added that United employees were demoralized and he wanted to help. There is nothing wrong with the people. They just need leadership. And they dont have it.Mr. Munoz, who has no previous airline management experience before United, came from the railroad operator the CSX Corporation, where he was chief operating officer. Mr. Munoz had been a director at United and before that at Continental, where he was named by Mr. Bethune.But shortly after his appointment, Mr. Munoz suffered a heart attack and was hospitalized for a heart transplant.The airline can count on the support of its flight attendants, which released a statement on Tuesday morning strongly backing the current leadership, and particularly Mr. Munoz. The union, the Association of Flight Attendants, which represents 24,000 employees, said the shareholders were creating a distraction at just the wrong time.In midday trading, shares of United were down 0.8 percent.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
