Hillary Clinton Rides a Wave of Caution in Uncertain Seas - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Election 2016|Hillary Clinton Rides a Wave of Caution in Uncertain Seas
Hillary Clinton Rides a Wave of Caution in Uncertain Seas
Hillary Clinton at a campaign event on Monday at the Charles H. Wright Museum of African American History in Detroit.
DETROIT  Hillary Clinton has a clearer path to the Democratic presidential nomination than she ever had in 2008. But she is marching toward November facing the likelihood of an unpredictable opponent  and constrained by well-defined characteristics that have always limited her ability to inspire.
The former first lady calls it her responsibility gene; rivals deride it as poll-tested caution. Either way, it leaves Mrs. Clinton trying to hit singles and doubles while her Democratic socialist challenger swings for the fences.Bernie Sanders advocates tax increases of $15 trillion affecting all income groups; Mrs. Clinton seeks an additional $1 trillion in revenue and would leave the bottom 95 percent of earners alone. He calls for a Medicare for all single-payer health care system; Mrs. Clinton aims to build on President Obamas Affordable Care Act.
What Were Watching as 4 States Vote and Both Parties Court MichiganMARCH 8, 2016
He proposes breaking up Wall Street banks that have grown since the financial crisis; she backs tougher regulations but embraces the 2010 Dodd-Frank law that would dismantle banks posing systemic risks. He calls for $1 trillion in new spending to improve infrastructure and create jobs; she calls for $275 billion  half of what her husbands Treasury secretary, Lawrence Summers, has advocated.Ive gone as far as I think the political equation will sustain, Mrs. Clinton said in an interview at a manufacturer of automobile dashboards. I want to propose things I can get done.Judged against the 10 years it took for a gridlocked Congress to pass long-term highway funding  Mr. Obama signed the $305 billion measure three months ago  Mrs. Clintons approach sounds reasonable. Yet she watches Mr. Sanders thrill young Democratic audiences by exhorting them to alter whats possible through political revolution.People make all these claims, Mrs. Clinton said, a hint of frustration in her voice. And its hard for voters to really evaluate how do they decide is this person, you know, being smart? Are they just overpromising? Are they way out in left field or right field?Thats why Ive tried to say, Look, heres what I will do. Heres how I will do it. Heres how much it will cost. I think thats pretty revolutionary.Her approach, honed by a generation of political combat, has her on track for the Democratic nomination. Mr. Sanderss success has so far exceeded most predictions, including almost certainly his own. But since cresting in New Hampshire, his Feel the Bern wave has receded with no sign of intensification as the contest shifts to larger, more diverse states.Has the storm passed? I hope so, Mrs. Clinton said. Then she added warily: Theres always something  something that can come at you, drop from the sky.Thats what Donald J. Trump has done to Republicans. If he succeeds, he would represent an opponent less restrained and more unpredictable than any she has faced before.Alongside her husband in 1992, Mrs. Clinton experienced a similar wild card in Ross Perots independent candidacy. Mr. Trump has broken even more rules than Mr. Perot did, from his unlikely proposal to deport 11 million illegal immigrants, to his lightning policy reversals, to the crude insults he sprays at opponents of all kinds.Like most Democrats, Mrs. Clintons campaign strategists say they believe the nonwhites driven to vote against Mr. Trump would exceed the additional white voters he would attract. But they cannot be certain.He attacked Mr. Clintons personal life after Mrs. Clinton accused him of sexism. He tells audiences she may be prosecuted over her private email server (the existence of which, many Democrats say, represents a paradoxical instance of her defensive instincts actually damaging her).It doesnt make me nervous, the cautious candidate said of running against Mr. Trump. After all, she added, Republicans have been after me for years. Nothing new about that.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
