Hillary Clinton Ad in Michigan Derides Companies Moving Overseas - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Politics|Hillary Clinton Ad in Michigan Derides Companies Moving Overseas
Hillary Clinton Ad in Michigan Derides Companies Moving Overseas
Appealing to voters in Michigan, Hillary Clinton released Bam, an ad attacking American companies that move their headquarters to foreign countries to reap enormous tax savings.On ScreenDrivers-eye footage shows abandoned warehouses as a guitar provides a bluesy backdrop for a gritty-voiced male narrator. O.K., you know the deal, he says. Factory turns out the lights, ships the jobs overseas.Betcha didnt know these companies, though, he continues, as clips show buildings with the logos of Tyco, Weatherford International, Medtronic, McDermott International and C&J; Energy Services, which variously changed their addresses to Ireland, Panama or Bermuda in maneuvers known as corporate inversions.
Heres the latest news and analysis of the candidates and issues shaping the presidential race.
Ted Cruzs Prospects Ascendant, Though Perhaps Not With Senate Peers
Mitt Romney Records Another Anti-Trump Message, This Time for John Kasich
Fox News Forum May Signal Thaw Between Democrats and Network
What Were Watching as 4 States Vote and Both Parties Court Michigan
Mitt Romney Records Phone Message for Marco Rubios Campaign
Nice, the narrator adds sneeringly. Then  Bam!  big tax breaks. C.E.O. gets a bonus; workers and Uncle Sam get squat. A cartoon shows an executive flipping through a stack of cash and stuffing it into a bag, workers walk out of a factory and Uncle Sam points his finger at the camera.Mrs. Clinton is then shown shaking hands in a produce warehouse, speaking in front of a tractor and high-fiving on the rope line. Hillary says, you walk out on America, you pay an exit tax, the narrator says. And if you got tax dollars or a tax deal, youve got to give the money back. At that, our cartoon executive sees a giant vacuum suck his cash right up out of the bag.The MessageAs the ad says, Shes with us.Fact CheckMcDermott International completed one of the first corporate inversions, in 1982. Though the ad mentions Tycos 1997 inversion, it does not mention Tycos more recent union with Johnson Controls, which is benefiting from Tycos Irish address. As Mrs. Clintons critics have noted, the Tyco-Johnson Controls deal was negotiated in part by the firm of one of her campaigns financial bundlers, and Johnson Controls has donated heavily to the Clinton Global Initiative.WhereOn broadcast and cable stations in Michigan.TakeawayNone of the companies mentioned was based in Michigan, but the state has been hammered by job losses, and the commercial puts Mrs. Clinton squarely on the side of workers against greedy bosses  right where her Democratic rival, Senator Bernie Sanders, has long positioned himself.
Breaking down the messaging powering the 2016 presidential election.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
