Hulk Hogan Exudes Calm on Second Day of Sex Tape Case - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Media|Hulk Hogan Exudes Calm on Second Day of Sex Tape Case
Hulk Hogan Exudes Calm on Second Day of Sex Tape Case
Terry Bollea, takes a moment as attorneys talk to the judge in court on Tuesday during his trial against Gawker.
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla.  On the witness stand for a second day on Tuesday, Hulk Hogan was far from the chest-thumping, T-shirt-tearing champion wrestler admired for years by his fans for his braggadocio and his swagger.Under relentless cross-examination by a lawyer for the website Gawker, which he has sued for invasion of privacy, the retired wrestler was subdued, even melancholy. Referred to in court by his real name, Terry G. Bollea, and wearing a cross on a silver chain around his neck, he appeared intent on keeping calm under the onslaught, with only the occasional trace of irritation in his responses. Even then, he consistently addressed the lawyer, Michael Sullivan, as sir.Im not the same person I was before all this stuff happened, Mr. Bollea said. I dont have my guard up any more.
Hulk Hogan Takes Stand in His Sex-Tape Lawsuit Against GawkerMARCH 7, 2016
It was the second day of testimony in Mr. Bolleas $100 million lawsuit against Gawker, which in 2012 posted a secretly recorded video of him having sex with a friends wife. The case has raised fundamental issues about privacy rights and freedom of the press in a technologically nimble age in which anyone can publish online the most private and salacious pictures and videos.In the Pinellas County Circuit courtroom, observed by a large contingent of reporters from around the country, the 62-year-old former wrestler gently rebuffed attempts by Mr. Sullivan to paint him as someone who carelessly and routinely flaunted his sexuality and his conquests, and for whom even the most intimate personal details were fodder for publicity.Mr. Bollea insisted that any such disclosures in public were purely an act, a crucial component of his character as Hulk Hogan. In that context, he defended radio and television interviews with Howard Stern, Harvey Levin of TMZ and others in which he discussed his love life, the size of his penis, and his daughters sexuality. Mr. Bollea said also that his descriptions of a love affair in a memoir, and reality-show video of him sitting on a toilet, his pants around his ankles, were similarly acceptable when viewed as part of his public persona.I was on an entertainment show: I had to be an entertainer, Mr. Bollea said, referring to Mr. Sterns program. When youre on his show, you know its a character-driven show, so you just roll with it. You have to take the good with the bad.But the defense lawyers questions seemed to imply that Mr. Bolleas propensity for such disclosures  which continued after the posting in 2012 of the video at issue  was at odds with his claim that his privacy had been violated by the images taken from a security camera in his friends bedroom.Mr. Bollea resisted that notion. My problem, he said, is with the videotape that you guys put out, that lives forever on the Internet.He acknowledged that a celebrity must put up with certain pressures and scrutiny that most people dont experience. Im kind of concerned about Hulk Hogans privacy, but you kind of give it away, he said. But in the privacy of your own home, no one invades my privacy.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
