In Politics as in Investments, a Long-Term Outlook Can Soothe - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Your Money|In Politics as in Investments, a Long-Term Outlook Can Soothe
In Politics as in Investments, a Long-Term Outlook Can Soothe
Whats the deal with American politics right now?
This is an odd question for me to try to answer. I write and talk about money, not politics. But this year, its the question I hear most often when I travel to other countries. They want to know if I can shed any light on whats happening in our presidential race.Im as shocked as everyone else by what is going on. But as I have thought about it, I keep coming back to this great insight from the investing guru Benjamin Graham: In the short run, the market is a voting machine, but in the long run, it is a weighing machine.The same logic holds true for democracy. In the short term, how markets move and whom we elect depends on humans casting ballots in a voting machine  buying stocks or making a choice in the voting booth. The results we see represent nothing more than the collective feelings of all those humans  at that moment. At any given time were voting for stocks or politicians based on imperfect information and a very complex set of mental and emotional biases. These are all things that make it incredibly difficult to reach a rational decision.But in the midst of all this angst about what to do or think right now, we can better navigate the messy short term by considering what we want to happen long term. In the long term, we know that markets and elections become the weighing machines that Mr. Graham described. They smooth out the extreme emotions of any one moment and reflect the underlying value of our bigger systems, capitalism and democracy.So we ought to take a step back from whats happening right now and add some time to our outlook, say 15 to 20 years. We need to find a way to balance the emotion were feeling right now with what wed like to see decades from now. I know that it makes a big difference when it comes to investing, and it stands to reason that it applies to politics, too.When Winston Churchill said, Democracy is the worst form of government ever created by the mind of man, except for all the others, he could have been talking about investing in free capital markets, too. All of the fear and risk and volatility add up to the worst possible way to reach financial goals ever created  except for all the others. Still, our investing and electoral systems make more sense when we nudge ourselves into looking past short-term emotions and biases.
Short-Term Craziness Almost Always Works Itself Out
For instance, it already seems like the race for president has lasted forever. But it hasnt even been a year since Donald Trump rode down an escalator and ushered in the reality show were now watching. We need to remember that in our democratic republic, even a four- or eight-year presidency is still short term.Our country is filled with people experiencing frustration, fear and anger. Why not blow up the whole system? At least it would be entertaining, right? But we owe it to ourselves and to the bigger systems to balance how were feeling in the short term against what wed like to see a decade or two from now.It might help to imagine your personal worst-case situation for 2016. Does a President Trump or Sanders mean you will stop believing in democracy? Probably not. You will still vote in the next election and the one after that because you understand the value of the bigger system. So based on your belief in the bigger system, whats the best possible vote you can cast this time around?Im still not sure how to explain whats happening in American politics. How were all feeling now may look nothing like how we feel four years from, even if we are trying to Trump-proof our portfolios. In the short term, markets will continue to move, politics will continue to look like a circus and well continue to be human and make decisions based on how we feel. But in the long term, history has proved that both the markets and our political system will stretch to accommodate most of our feelings.
Carl Richards is a financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the director of investor education at the BAM Alliance. His latest book is The One-Page Financial Plan: A Simple Way to Be Smart About Your Money. Hundreds of his sketches about investing, money and behavior are archived on the Your Money page.
Make the most of your money. Every Monday get articles about retirement, saving for college, investing, new online financial services and much more. Sign up for the Your Money newsletter here.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
