Iowa Caucuses: What to Watch For - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Voters in Iowa cast the first ballots of the 2016 presidential election in caucuses across the state on Monday. Polls show a close race in both Democratic and Republican contests.
Hillary Clinton is leading Bernie Sanders by around three percentage points, and Donald Trump is ahead of Ted Cruz by a more comfortable eight-point margin. Marco Rubio holds a strong third place in the Republican race at around 15 percent. Heres a guide to understanding the results.Watch the TurnoutPolling, of course, is not perfect. Its more challenging in primaries than in general elections, because there are far more undecided voters and turnout is more unpredictable. Its even harder in an early caucus; the turnout is especially variable and the views of voters are unsettled between many more candidates than remain in later states.
It would not be particularly surprising if either Mr. Cruz or Mr. Sanders went on to win tonight. Turnout is a critical question in both races, and polls always struggle to anticipate the composition of the electorate. Polls show Mr. Cruz and Mrs. Clinton faring well among traditional caucus-goers, and Mr. Sanders and Mr. Trump faring best among those with no prior participation.Two new polls on the Republican side added still more intrigue this morning, showing Mr. Trump ahead by just 1 percentage point over Mr. Cruz, with Mr. Rubio faring better than he had in any recent polling. Neither poll is especially well regarded, but could reflect late-breaking changes that often occur ahead of the caucuses.Recognize Iowas Political DiversityIowas position at the start of the primary calendar is often under attack, in no small part because the state is not especially diverse. But Iowas demographic homogeneity obscures considerable political diversity, and the results tonight will give a strong sense of the political coalitions of the major candidates  and their shortcomings.Iowas politics often split between the states east and west. The eastern part of the state is more liberal, with cities like Cedar Rapids and Des Moines, which have relatively well-educated citizens, and liberal college towns like Iowa City, Ames and Cedar Falls.
But what makes eastern Iowa so distinctive is the Democratic Partys strength among rural, white voters. Thats because the eastern half of the state, especially in the so-called driftless region along the Mississippi River, has fewer evangelical Christians than just about anywhere in the country outside the Northeast. Nationally, Republicans lose among nonevangelical white voters, especially outside the South, and so they do here.
Evangelicals and the college educated help explain the state's east-west divide in the 2012 presidential election
 while the college educated tended to support Obama
 which helped define the variation in the 2012 election.
Republicans fare far better in the rural, western part of the state. The number of evangelical Christians generally is near the national average, which gives Republicans an edge among white voters  as is the case nationally. The Republicans have made gains in the western half of the state in recent decades, but not enough to overcome more modest Democratic gains in the states more populous eastern half  at least in six of the last seven presidential elections.
These same divides show up in partisan primaries. Liberal Democrats and moderate Republicans tend to fare best in the eastern part of Iowa, while conservative Republicans and moderate Democrats excel farther west. Its a pattern that has repeated itself in almost every contest, and it will probably appear again tonight.How Democrats Split
In the Democratic race, the states liberal-conservative split could easily be widened by one of the biggest demographic divides in the race: age. Mrs. Clinton fares best among older voters, while Mr. Sanders excels among the young. Rural Iowa has lost population in recent decades, and the rural areas are generally far older than the liberal college towns and metropolitan areas.
County differences in age and education help define the 2008 Democratic caucus in Iowa
while college students tended to lean toward Obama
which helped define the variation in the 2008 Democratic caucus.
Eight years ago, Barack Obama won college towns and metropolitan areas by wide margins. But he was still very competitive in rural Iowa, and even outperformed Mrs. Clinton in wide stretches of the more conservative western half of the state. Whether Mr. Sanders can broaden his appeal beyond liberal bastions and college towns, as Mr. Obama did, to anything near the same extent will be a crucial test of his viability.Mr. Sanders appears to hold a substantial lead in New Hampshire, so an Iowa victory would put him in an excellent position to sweep the first two states. Whether that would be enough to propel him past Mrs. Clinton would hinge on whether he could make significant gains among nonwhite voters, who represent 40 percent of the Democratic primary electorate. In polling, nonwhite voters back Mrs. Clinton by overwhelming margins so far, but back-to-back wins in Iowa and New Hampshire would at least give Mr. Sanders a chance to reduce her advantage.
People of Dutch ancestry in the northwest and higher-income families in the east helped define the 2012 G.O.P. caucus
Santorum did particularly well among people with Dutch ancestry
 while wealthier families tended to support Romney
which helped define the variation in the 2012 Republican caucus.
Demystifying G.O.P. GeographyThe geography of the Republican race is more of a mystery  and its one of the biggest things well learn on election night. It seems obvious where Mr. Cruz should fare well: the very conservative and religious western half of the state, and especially the ancestrally Dutch areas where the most conservative candidates often win by wide margins.Its also fairly evident that a more moderate establishment-backed candidate, like Mr. Rubio, ought to fare well among more affluent Republicans in metropolitan eastern Iowa, and especially in the suburbs to the west of Des Moines.But exactly where Mr. Trump should do well is unclear. His support, which is generally strong across the state, breaks traditional demographic divides. Perhaps he should be expected to do best in the areas where neither Mr. Cruz nor Mr. Rubio would seem to have an edge, like in rural eastern Iowa, but we wont know until the results come in.Whats clear is that a victory for Mr. Trump would put him in an extremely strong position, especially for a candidate with significant weaknesses. He is likely to win New Hampshire, regardless of the result in Iowa, and back-to-back victories would give him a legitimate chance to steamroll to the nomination over an extremely divided field.A loss for Mr. Cruz wouldnt end his chances  he has a strong national organization and a natural appeal to those who describe themselves as very conservative, one of the partys largest and most committed factions. But the Iowa caucus electorate is as conservative as it gets. It is far more conservative than in the primary states in the South, where his campaign hopes to do well. If he cant pull off a win in Iowa, it will be hard to explain why he should be expected to fare better elsewhere.
A key side story will be the outcome for Mr. Rubio. A strong third place or even a surprise second-place finish might give him the momentum he needs to break the deadlock among the other major mainstream Republican candidates competing in New Hampshire: Jeb Bush, John Kasich and Chris Christie.If Mr. Trump wins tonight, the partys establishment will be in a race against time to winnow the field of mainstream Republicans before South Carolina or Super Tuesday; a strong performance by Mr. Rubio could assist it greatly in that effort.The doors at the Iowa caucuses close at 8 p.m. Eastern time, when the caucuses begin.
The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
