John Kerry Urges Syrian Factions Not to Squander U.N. Talks - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Middle East|John Kerry Urges Syrian Factions Not to Squander U.N. Talks
John Kerry Urges Syrian Factions Not to Squander U.N. Talks
An antigovernment fighter hiding in the rebel-controlled area of Arbeen, near Damascus, Syria.
Amer Almohibany/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images
GENEVA  In a forceful, videotaped message circulated on social media on Sunday, Secretary of State John Kerry urged the rival factions in Syria not to squander the opportunity to engage in United Nations-mediated talks that began haltingly on Friday in Geneva aimed at crafting a political settlement to the conflict.
We have seen through years of savage fighting what the absence of serious negotiations yields, Mr. Kerry said. So I urge all parties to seize this opportunity and go forward with the best interests of their country in mind.It was a measure of how much Mr. Kerry wanted the talks to happen, and how much diplomatic capital he put into getting them off the ground.
Syria Peace Talks Inch Ahead as Bombings Near Damascus ContinueJAN. 31, 2016
Syria Talks Are Complicated by Competing Opposition GroupsJAN. 29, 2016
Syrian Opposition Bloc Still Wont Commit to Joining Peace TalksJAN. 28, 2016
Deprivation in Syria Deepens as U.N. Talks LoomJAN. 27, 2016
The United Nations had hoped to begin the talks on Jan. 25, but they were put off. The parties on the ground have powerful foreign backers, and those backers have their own interests for wanting (or not wanting) the talks to proceed, and they all have vastly different objectives. The major world powers  as well as the regional powers that have fueled the war for five years  have all given their blessings for the talks to take place. But who wants what out of them? Here is a quick breakdown.United StatesThe White House is extremely eager to begin the talks in earnest, and to yield something that resembles a path to ending the warAs Mr. Kerry signaled in his speech, and as American officials have argued all along, the longer the war in Syria, the more fertile the ground for the militant Islamic State group to thrive and spread across the region. For the Obama administration, and particularly for Mr. Kerry, it is also a legacy issue. The administration is eager to rebut criticism that it has not exerted enough effort to ease the suffering of Syrians, and pictures of starving children in besieged Syrian towns do not help. Getting food aid into the stricken areas has become an imperative. The United Nations says the Syrian government is responsible for most of the towns under siege, with about 187,000 trapped inside, deprived of food and medicine.
Mr. Kerrys statement on Sunday appeared to publicly step up pressure on Russia, the most powerful backer of the government of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. The international community must be united in pressing for compliance. Both governments that are supporting the opposition  and especially governments that are supporting Bashar al-Assad, whose forces control the vast majority of territory under siege  have this obligation also, the statement said.RussiaThe Russian news agency Tass has reported that Mr. Kerry spoke with his Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov, on Saturday and that the two men agreed on the need to settle humanitarian issues in the initial phase of the talks.The talks would never have gotten off the ground without Russian approval. But what Russia wants out of them, and when, remains unclear. Moscow has been carrying out airstrikes to help Syrian government forces for the past four months, and the Kremlin is accused by its opponents of intensifying the strikes in recent weeks to improve its negotiating position. But when it is ready to extract itself from the battlefield, it needs to have a political process underway, and a way to make a deal. Also, diplomats speculate  perhaps optimistically  that being involved in bringing peace to Syria offers Russia an enormous opportunity to rehabilitate itself diplomatically. It can be seen as a peace broker rather than a rule breaker.
The Russians have been instrumental in setting the ground rules. As one pro-government journalist put it the other day, Moscow has sought to ensure that the talks do not focus on the ouster of their ally, Mr. Assad, which is precisely what the opposition and its allies want to negotiate.Saudi ArabiaThe Saudi foreign minister has publicly called for the Syrian opposition bloc that Saudi Arabia supports to attend the talks, after it expressed reluctance last week.On Saturday, the Saudis arranged a royal jet to transport two dozen members of the High Negotiating Committee, as the representatives of the opposition bloc are known, to Geneva from the capital, Riyadh.Do the Saudis want talks now? Their rebel allies are not in a good position on the battlefield. Yet, while they might not be in a strong position to negotiate, they are eager to stop Russian airstrikes, diplomats say. The Saudis also want to demonstrate to the world that they are giving peace talks a chance. If they fail, it would give them an opportunity to show that Mr. Assad was never serious about a political settlement, and that an all-out military assault is the only way to guarantee his exit.TurkeyTurkey won a short-term prize by managing to exclude the main Syrian Kurdish rebel group from the talks. But in the long run, the Kurds stand to gain from any final political settlement to the conflict. They control a large stretch of territory, and they have the backing of both Russia and the United States.Like Saudi Arabia, Turkeys principal political goal is the ouster of Mr. Assad, but they have little reason to trust the peace talks to deliver that prize, given the leaders strong backing by Russia and Iran.For those reasons, Turkey may have the least to gain from the talks. Its one incentive to go along with the process may be to avoid further escalating tensions with Russia. Turkey accused Russia on Sunday of violating its airspace for the second time in recent months.IranIran is part of the broad coalition of countries that gave its blessing for the talks to get started. But Tehrans critics say it has little reason to push the parties to a political settlement. It has given men and matriel to aid Mr. Assads forces on the ground, and it is determined to maintain a stronghold in Syria for the sake of the powerful Shiite militia that Iran backs, Hezbollah.Iran has insisted on the need for elections to decide Mr. Assads fate and will not consider the notion of his ouster before then.EuropeThe European Union is reeling from a tide of refugees from Syria, and the longer the war continues, the more Syrians will try to cross the Mediterranean Sea in a bid to reach European shores. The bloc, under legal obligation not to turn back those who are fleeing war and persecution, is now paying Turkey to do more to prevent them from entering the region.That has not stopped people from getting on boats  or from dying at sea  in the attempt to reach the European Union. The latest tragedy came over the weekend, when a boat capsized in the waters of the Aegean Sea. Nearly 40 people died, including 10 children. Rescue workers laid their corpses on the rocky shoals and the pictures spread instantly across the world, as the rival parties in Geneva bickered over who could gain how much from the talks.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
