Le Coq Rico Captures Essence of a Parisian Poultry Palace - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Food|Le Coq Rico Captures Essence of a Parisian Poultry Palace
Le Coq Rico Captures Essence of a Parisian Poultry Palace
Kossars Returns With Bagels and Bialys on the Lower East Side
Le Coq Rico Antoine Westermann, the Alsatian chef who once had three Michelin stars, has created a New York incarnation of his Parisian poultry palace. It occupies two storefronts, one with a long bar and the other a stretch of counter with a battalion of rotisseries and some seating, joined by a spacious rear dining room. Mr. Westermann has had some practice operating a restaurant in the United States. He ran the Caf du Parc in Washington and became familiar with local farmers. He is a fan of our heritage chickens from small farms; his menu even lists how many days it took to raise each one (the longer the better). In France, its poulet de Bresse, he said, referring to the chickens with blue feet, but here there are other breeds that can replicate the taste of Paris. There are also guinea fowl, Cornish hens, ducks and squab, as well as poultry livers, egg dishes and a traditional Alsatian baeckeoffe casserole: (Opens Thursday): 30 East 20th Street, 212-267-7426, lecoqriconyc.com.
OpeningBelle Shoals There is no such town in the Deep South, but Josh Mazza and Steve Laycock, the owners, invented the plausible name and tailor the ambience with a vintage Wurlitzer and a menu of hush puppies, po boys, biscuits with bourbon butter and drinks like Sazeracs and mint juleps: 10 Hope Street (Roebling Street), Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-218-6027, belleshoals.com.Freds at Barneys On the top floor of the resuscitated Barneys in Chelsea is a new edition of the restaurant that has been run by Mark Strausman in the Madison Avenue store for years. In a modern setting dominated by a bright mural, the food combines uptown standards like chopped chicken salad and pizza margherita with new dishes, including avocado toast, ceviche, rigatoni with brisket rag, and late-afternoon cocktail tidbits: 101 Seventh Avenue (17th Street), 646-264-6402.Perla Cafe Two weeks ago, Gabriel Stulman closed Perla, on Minetta Lane, to move it into a space that was closer to the rest of his portfolio. It is about to reopen, with the chef Jack Harris still in place, offering pastas, meat, seafood and vegetables. There will also be a pastry chef, Lindsey Prokscha, and a streamlined reservation system: 234 West Fourth Street (West 10th Street), 212-933-1824, perlanyc.com.Studio Kraut A lounge, a cabaret and a dining room with German comfort food like crispy sauerbraten wings, chicken schnitzel and bratwurst coexist in an arty setting: 160 Eighth Avenue (18th Street), 646-449-8150, studiokrautnyc.com.
Temerario and Caf Bamba One of two new offerings from the Jorge Guzman Hospitality Group, Temerario serves refined Mexican street food, with choices like Puebla-style tacos, smoked marlin tostadas and chiles rellenos from Taxco. Its little sibling around the corner, Caf Bamba, is open all day with a more general menu of sandwiches, eggs and salads for eating in or taking out: Temerario, 198 Eighth Avenue (20th Street), 212-645-2100, temerarionyc.com; Caf Bamba, 265 West 20th Street, 212-741-2398, cafebambanyc.com. ClosedApplewood This Park Slope, Brooklyn, restaurant has shut for good. The owners, David and Laura Shea, now live upstate and said they could no longer handle the commute.Chefs on the MoveVinicius Campos, formerly at Fitzcarraldo in Bushwick, Brooklyn, is now the executive chef at Wassail Restaurant and Cider Bar on the Lower East Side.Gordon Finn, who was the executive chef at Ristorante Morini on the Upper East Side, is now the executive chef at Quality Italian in Midtown.Catherine Medrano is the new chef at the Regency Bar & Grill. She was awarded the job by Loews Hotels after it took over the restaurant from the Sant Ambroeus team, Gherardo Guarducci and Dimitri Pauli, who had been in charge since it reopened two years ago. Sant Ambroeus will continue to operate the cafe and gelateria on the East 61st Street side of the hotel.Looking AheadItalienne Food rooted in Northern Italy, Southern France and other nearby regions will be the work of Jared Sippel, who was supposed to be the chef at the restaurant going into the Manhattan branch of Brooklyn Fare, which has yet to open. No longer cooling his heels, Mr. Sippel will be ready in late spring with four-course tasting menus in a refined setting that will have a rustic front-room taverna: 19 West 24th Street.Jean-Georges Vongerichten at Waldorf Astoria Beverly Hills This will be the first West Coast restaurant for the New York chef, opening in about a year in this hotel being built next to the Beverly Hilton. Mr. Vongerichten said he did not intend to reinvent California cuisine. But it will be very farm-to-table, he said. I want to incorporate trends that are happening there. It will be the first major restaurant to open in that area in quite a while. Mr. Vongerichten said all the ingredients would be organic. Like the hotel, the restaurant, as yet unnamed, is being designed with a contemporary look by Pierre-Yves Rochon, who did interiors for the Savoy in London and the Four Seasons George V in Paris. It will have about 150 seats indoors and out, Santa Monica and Wilshire Boulevards, Beverly Hills, Calif.
A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2016, on page D3 of the New York edition.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
