South Korea Accuses North of Hacking Senior Officials Phones - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Asia Pacific|South Korea Accuses North of Hacking Senior Officials Phones
South Korea Accuses North of Hacking Senior Officials Phones
A photo released by North Koreas official Korean Central News Agency, purportedly showing railway workers in West Pyongyang protesting last week against United Nations Security Council sanctions.
Korean Central News Agency, via Agence France-Presse  Getty Images
SEOUL, South Korea  South Koreas main spy agency on Tuesday accused North Korea of hacking the smartphones of dozens of senior government officials here, saying that Pyongyang had stolen their text messages, contact information and voice conversations.
The agency, the National Intelligence Service, has said that South Korea faces a growing threat of major online attacks from the North, possibly in retaliation for the latest international sanctions over Pyongyangs nuclear arms and missile programs. Seoul imposed new sanctions of its own against North Korea on Tuesday.The intelligence agency said in a news release that it had shared information about recent North Korean hacking attempts in a meeting on Tuesday with other government agencies, which was called to discuss the countrys readiness for a major online attack.
Philippines Will Impound Ship Linked to North KoreaMARCH 6, 2016
North Korea Threatens Nuclear Attack as U.S. and South Korea Begin DrillsMARCH 6, 2016
U.N. Toughens Sanctions on North Korea in Response to Its Nuclear ProgramMARCH 2, 2016
Q. and A.: How North Korea Poses a ThreatMARCH 1, 2016
Between late February and early March, the agency said, North Korea tried to infiltrate the smartphones of senior South Korean officials by sending them text messages designed to activate a virus. About 20 percent of those phones were infected with the virus, according to the agency, which did not identify the officials who had been targeted.The agency also said that North Korea had successfully hacked into the network of a company that provided security software for an online banking system used by more than 20 million South Koreans. But it said that the attack, which took place in February, was detected early and that there was no major disruption to banking services.The intelligence service did not explain how it had concluded that North Korea was responsible.The United Nations Security Council adopted new sanctions last week to punish North Korea for conducting its fourth nuclear test on Jan. 6 and launching a long-range rocket on Feb. 7. South Korea has been a leading advocate for the tougher penalties, which are aimed at the Norths ability to raise funds for its weapons programs and target luxury goods, which analysts believe are used to ensure the loyalty of the Norths ruling elite.Also on Tuesday, South Korea announced new sanctions against the North, banning all ships visiting North Korea from making port calls in the South for six months. Japan announced a similar measure last month.Together with the Japanese sanctions, our step today will make foreign vessels increasingly reluctant to visit North Korea, the government said in a news release. This in turn will cause significant problems for North Koreas ability to transport banned goods.Last year, 66 third-country ships made a total of 104 port calls in South Korea after visiting the North, carrying steel and other goods, the government said. South Korea also said 40 individuals and 30 entities, most of them North Korean, would be prohibited from financial transactions with the South because of ties to the Norths weapons programs. It also urged its people not to eat at any of the 130 restaurants abroad that North Korea runs to earn foreign currency.
Officials in the South said shipping sanctions would have some concrete impact because fewer ships would be willing to visit the North. But the overall efforts to squeeze North Korea depend on cooperation from China, its largest trading partner.Seoul had already banned most direct trade with North Korea after the sinking of a navy ship in 2010, which it attributed to
a North Korean torpedo attack. At the time, it also banned new investment in the North and blocked all North Korean ships from entering its waters.Last month, South Korea also shut down the last joint economic project with the North, a factory park in the North Korean town of Kaesong.South Korean and American officials have been increasingly concerned about North Koreas ability to carry out cyberattacks. South Korea has blamed Pyongyang-sponsored hackers for major disruptions of banking, government, news media and military websites in the South in recent years.The National Intelligence Service had earlier accused North Korean hackers of spreading game apps containing malicious viruses in 2013 and 2014, affecting an estimated 25,000 South Korean smartphone users and stealing their contact data and text messages.North Korea also emerged as a prime suspect in the 2014 attack that shut down the computer systems of Sony Pictures Entertainment, which had produced a comic film, The Interview, that involved a plot to assassinate the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.North Korea has denied involvement in those attacks and accused South Korea of disrupting its own websites.North Korea is cut off from the Internet except for a handful of state-approved websites. But South Korean intelligence officials say the country has been training specialists in computer attacks for decades. The Pentagon has also said that the impoverished North might see hacking attacks as a cost-effective way to develop asymmetric, deniable military options.
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day with the Todays Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
