Paris Fashion Week: Day 8 With Chanel and Valentino - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Fashion & Style|Paris Fashion Week: Day 8 With Chanel and Valentino
Paris Fashion Week: Day 8 With Chanel and Valentino
What to expect from Day 8. Here, some scenes from past years.
Top row from left, Pascal Le Segretain/Getty Images; Patrick Kovarik/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images; Firstview; bottom row left and far right, Firstview; center, Gonzalo Fuentes/Reuters
PARIS  Tuesday may be the penultimate stretch  with just 36 hours to go until the end of the fall 2016 season  but it holds some big-name shows.At 10:30 the curtain will rise on what is unquestionably the most lavish spectacle of the week, the Chanel show at the Grand Palais. Packed to the brim with celebrities and the worlds wealthiest women, the vast space will have been transformed into whatever whim has taken the fancy of Karl Lagerfeld, Chanels creative director. Previous seasons have included a sprawling casino, a supermarket and an airport waiting lounge.Two hours later, Vanessa Seward, a staple for chic Parisian women, shows her latest collection, before an en masse turnout for Valentino in the Jardin des Tuileries.
News, reviews and features from the editors of Fashion & Style and T Magazine.
Paris Fashion Week: Stella McCartney and Sacai in Pictures
Humberto Leon and Carol Lim (and Their Families), Out for Dinner in Paris
Iris van Herpen is up next at 4:30, before Kenzo at 7:30 and a raft of afterparties that will go late into the night. Standouts are expected to be a bash hosted by Valentino; the LOral Red Obsession party (which will be heaving with models); and a party organized by the supercool New York label Opening Ceremony with Disney to celebrate a collaboration before the release of the new Jungle Book movie.There will be some sleepy faces on the front rows during the final shows on Wednesday.
Check out our complete Paris Fashion Week coverage here.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
