Manchester City Hires Pep Guardiola as Manager - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Soccer|Manchester City Hires Pep Guardiola as Manager
Pep Guardiola, left, will replace Manuel Pellegrini as Manchester Citys manager beginning next season.
Christof Stache/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images
Manchester City currently sits in second place in the English Premier League, behind only the unlikely Leicester City. The team is also in the final of the League Cup and the last 16 of the F.A. Cup and Champions League. In theory, it could win all four trophies this season.And yet, City just dumped its manager.Manchester City announced Monday that it had signed Pep Guardiola, the man behind the tremendous success of Barcelona, and more recently Bayern Munich, to take over next season on a three-year contract. That leaves the current manager, Manuel Pellegrini, as a lame duck even as the team competes for some of the most prestigious prizes in soccer.The club insisted in a statement that Manuel, who is fully supportive of the decision to make this communication, is entirely focused on achieving his targets for the season ahead and retains the respect and commitment of all involved with the leadership of the club.
Guardiola will also finish out the season with Bayern before coming to Manchester.The dismissal reflects the increasing pressure for success at the superteams in Europes top leagues. As recently as 1999, Man City was in the third tier of English soccer. But after being purchased by investors from the United Arab Emirates in 2008, the team has become one of the worlds wealthiest, winning the Premier League in 2012 and 2014.
Get the latest tweets from @NYTSports, including breaking news, analysis and live updates.
The flood of money has brought a host of world-class players to the team, but also sky-high expectations.The veteran Chilean Pellegrini was hired in 2013, and led City to the Premier League title in his first year, then finished second to Chelsea last season. More disappointing to the owners was that the team fell in the round of 16 of the Champions League both seasons.
This season, City is in a strong second place despite injury problems for many of its best players, including striker Sergio Aguero and captain Vincent Kompany.But the lure of hiring Guardiola, 45, often called the worlds greatest manager, was apparently too great.
Guardiola was a success from the minute he took over as Barcelonas manager, winning the Spanish League and Cup and Champions League in his first season, 2008-09. He added two more league titles, and another Champions League in 2011, then in 2012 announced he would step down for a sabbatical.Bayern Munich hired him in January 2013 to take over the next season. Guardiola won back-to-back league titles with Bayern, and will almost certainly win a third this season.In its statement announcing Guardiolas hiring, Manchester City said, These negotiations were a re-commencement of discussions that were curtailed in 2012. There was plenty of speculation at that time that Guardiola was Citys first choice for manager, and that Pellegrini was a fallback plan.
The specter of the highly successful Guardiola on the way to Manchester City may put real pressure on crosstown rivals Manchester United to dump their manager, Louis Van Gaal, and go for the charismatic Jose Mourinho, recently fired by Chelsea.Chelsea is also in need of a permanent manager, meaning that of Englands big four, only Arsenal, where Arsene Wenger is in his 20th year, has been maintaining any manager stability.After the announcement of Guardiolas hiring by Bayern in 2013, the lame duck manager, Jupp Heynckes, won the league and Champions League. Pellegrini will hope he can go out at City with a similar blaze of glory.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
