Powerful Storm Kills Driver and Wreaks Havoc in California - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|Powerful Storm Kills Driver and Wreaks Havoc in California
Powerful Storm Kills Driver and Wreaks Havoc in California
A driver was killed after a tree fell across multiple lanes of traffic and crushed her car in Pacific Beach, Calif., on Sunday.
John Gastaldo/San Diego Union-Tribune, via Associated Press
A powerful storm that unleashed heavy rains and gale winds up to 85 miles an hour over the weekend also tore off rooftops, toppled trees and utility poles, and knocked out power to tens of thousands of customers in San Diego and Los Angeles, officials said.A driver was killed after fierce winds sent an 80-foot tree crashing onto her vehicle in the Pacific Beach neighborhood of San Diego on Sunday, fire officials said. The tree also crushed three parked cars.Capt. Joe Amador of the San Diego Fire-Rescue Department noted the accidents grim precision. Even five seconds one way or the other and this wouldnt have happened, he told The San Diego Union-Tribune. He added, Were in the lifesaving business and its hard when it doesnt turn out that way.
Wow. Just an awful sight. #NBC7 #wind pic.twitter.com/XhMHZFuFgv
Utility companies reported that more than 100,000 customers lost power on Sunday in San Diego and Los Angeles Counties at the height of the storm, which originated in the western Pacific. Southern California Edison said it had dispatched about 200 crew members to repair the damage.
UPDATE: As of 9:00 p.m. Sunday, more than 70,000 customers have experienced service impacts due to weather-related outages #CAWX #ElNino
San Diego generally received a total of less than an inch of rain, said Stephen Harrison, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service, but areas at higher elevations saw significantly more  five inches fell in the San Bernardino Mountains.Reports were still coming on snow totals, but meteorologists expected them to be substantial. Big Bear reported about seven inches by Monday morning, Mr. Harrison said.Golfers competing on the final day of the Farmers Insurance Open at San Diegos Torrey Pines on Sunday tried to brave the trajectory-curving winds and rains, but had to relent by the afternoon. Tournament officials called off play at 3:30 p.m., rescheduling the competition for Monday morning.
Play @FarmersInsOpen has been called for the day. Will resume at 8am Monday. @PGATOUR
The rain was forecast to clear up early Monday, with the powerful winds and dangerous surf expected to diminish by the evening, as the storm slides east toward Arizona, the National Weather Service said.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
