Revamped United Airlines Board Could Be a Winning Compromise - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
DealBook|Revamped United Airlines Board Could Be a Winning Compromise
Revamped United Airlines Board Could Be a Winning Compromise
Its not the fresh start Oscar Munoz, United Airlines chief executive would have wanted.Two hedge funds said on Tuesday that they were aiming to install six new directors at the $20 billion United Continental, a week before Mr. Munoz, who took over as chief executive in September, is due to return from several months sick leave.Despite heated talk, a revamped boardroom could be a winning compromise for the third-biggest United States airline and its investors.PAR Capital Management and Altimeter Capital Management, which together own just over 7 percent of United shares, say they want to shake up what they contend is an underqualified, ineffective and entrenched board. The language is sharp, but they have a point.
AMC Move to Buy Carmike Is a Sensible One for Wang Jianlin
As of last week, few of Uniteds directors, other than two union representatives and a former Boeing executive, looked equipped to challenge managers on the nuts and bolts of running a major airline. As an example, nonexecutive chairman Henry L. Meyer III, who stepped in after Uniteds previous chairman and C.E.O., Jeff Smisek, departed in September amid a federal probe, used to run a regional bank.While United has made progress tackling late arrivals and other operational problems, the board hasnt covered itself in glory lately. It paid Smisek lavishly despite mediocre performance, and failed to communicate clearly with shareholders when his replacement, Mr. Munoz, fell ill with heart trouble in October.United added three new directors on Monday in what looks like an attempt to spike the activists guns. Even if thats part of the motivation, though, the new faces  including the former boss of Air Canadas parent and a onetime operating chief at Delta Air Lines  bring relevant expertise.The hedge fund nominees look solid, too. The slate is led by Gordon M. Bethune, who led a turnaround of Continental Airlines in the 1990s. The company grumbles that PAR and Altimeter refused to engage constructively, but it ought to be possible to settle on compromise candidates, as well as agreeing whose services are no longer needed.A deal would be preferable to a drawn-out proxy fight. After a fight would distract Mr. Munoz from improving United Continentals business and the tricky balancing act of making the company more shareholder-friendly while not paying out so much cash that its vulnerable to the next downturn.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
