This Dessert Fits In on St. Patricks Day - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
A creamy matcha custard pie thats about as verdant as you can get for St. Patricks Day is the work of Melissa and Emily Elsen, the owners of Four & Twenty Blackbirds in Brooklyn. The matcha, or powdered green tea, is from Ippodo Tea in Murray Hill and is culinary grade so its less bitter. To make the tart, heat the oven to 325 degrees. Whisk together  cup granulated sugar, 1 tablespoons flour,  teaspoon salt and 2 teaspoons matcha powder. Stir in  cup melted unsalted butter, then beat in 3 eggs and 1 egg yolk one at a time. Beat a couple of minutes more, stir in 2 cups heavy cream and  teaspoon vanilla, and strain into a par-baked 10-inch pie shell. Bake about 50 minutes, rotating it 180 degrees after 35 minutes, until the pie is set around the edges but still wobbly in the center. Let cool, then adorn with whipped cream: Matcha Custard Pie, $40 at Four & Twenty Blackbirds, 439 Third Avenue (Eighth Street), Brooklyn, 718-499-2917, birdsblack.com.To View: This Star Critic Takes a Turn in the Spotlight
Jonathan Gold, the Pulitzer Prize-winning food writer for The Los Angeles Times, in the film City of Gold.
Stories to help you understand the world  and make the most of it.
Family Travel Unplugged: More Options for Teenagers
To be a restaurant critic in Los Angeles involves a great deal of driving. Jonathan Gold, below right, the Pulitzer-winning food writer for The Los Angeles Times, is at the wheel in scene after scene in the new feature film City of Gold, which profiles its well-padded, suspender-wearing subject and his often out-of-the-way ethnic mom-and-pop restaurant discoveries. Even as the film makes you crave a fish taco, it also touches on restaurant criticism in general and shines a flattering spotlight on some of the less palm-fringed corners of Los Angeles: City of Gold, directed by Laura Gabbert, opens Friday.To Crave: A Lesson Will Leave You Hungry for More
Barbecue will be discussed and sampled at Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About BBQ, a conversation with the food historian Francine Segan and Warren Norstein, a barbecue expert: Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About BBQ, 7 to 8:30 p.m. Tuesday, $45, 92nd Street Y, 92nd Street and Lexington Avenue, 212-415-5500, 92Y.org.
To Indulge: Southeast Asia Sends a Doughnut This WayPandan, a palm leaf thats popular in Southeast Asian cooking, is entering the American culinary vocabulary. Simpson Wong, the chef and owner of the Singaporean restaurant Chomp Chomp in the West Village, has teamed up with the nearby Doughnut Project to slather one of its puffy yeast doughnuts with pandan glaze and toasted coconut. Its filled with green kaya, a coconut jam. Availability is limited: Kaya Doughnut, $4 at the Doughnut Project, 10 Morton Street (Bleecker Street), 212-691-5000, thedoughnutproject.com, and $6 with ice cream at Chomp Chomp, 7 Cornelia Street (West Fourth Street), 212-929-2888, chompchompnyc.com.
To Sip: The Fire Burns One Sip at a TimeUnlike the highly refined, almost neutral tequilas that have become the norm, this entry from Maestro Dobel harks back to the old days, when mesquite wood was used for cooking the pias, or the cores of the agave plants, and cloaked the spirit in sultry smoke. Humito, a racy new silver tequila with a wood grill aroma, has a flavor that smolders as you sip: Maestro Dobel Humito, $39.99 at Wells Discount Liquors, wellswine.com, maestrodobel.com.
To Enjoy: Inspiration Emerges From a BurgerA new pot-sticker-style dumpling is stuffed with the earthy mix of black beans, quinoa and sweet potato. It was devised by Marian Cheng and Hannah Cheng, the partners in Mimi Chengs, an East Village dumpling house, and is based on the guac burger from Samantha Wasser and Chloe Coscarelli at By Chloe, a Greenwich Village vegan spot with lines out the door. Chipotle aioli comes alongside. It will be sold at Mimi Chengs through the end of the month: Guac Burger Dumplings, $9.50 for six, $11.50 for eight at Mimi Chengs Dumplings, 179 Second Avenue (12th Street), mimichengs.com.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
