Ted Cruzs Prospects Ascendant, Though Perhaps Not With Senate Peers - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Politics|Ted Cruzs Prospects Ascendant, Though Perhaps Not With Senate Peers
Ted Cruzs Prospects Ascendant, Though Perhaps Not With Senate Peers
Senator Ted Cruz after a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing last year. Democrats are hoping that Mr. Cruz could prove as much of a drag on Senate and other down-ballot races as his rival, Donald J. Trump.
WASHINGTON  Senator Ted Cruz of Texas hopes his presidential fortunes are rising as he approaches a cluster of Republican primaries. But his prospects seem pretty flat among his party colleagues.
Interviews with a dozen Republican senators on Tuesday morning failed to yield a single endorsement for Mr. Cruz, even though his fellow freshman, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, has a dozen or so colleagues backing him. Even Donald J. Trump, whom many Republicans have gone out of their way to dismiss as unfit for office, has the support of a fellow immigration hawk, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama.Some senators simply said they would support whoever wins the nomination. Other smiled wanly, as if wishing they had superpowers that could remove them from the scene.
Donald Trump or Ted Cruz? Republicans Argue Over Who Is Greater ThreatJAN. 21, 2016
Donald Trump Is Forcing Ted Cruz to Rewrite His PlaybookJAN. 20, 2016
Its, uh, well, look at the alternatives, said Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, when asked if his party could rally around Mr. Cruz at some juncture. Mr. Cruz has been gaining on Mr. Trump over the last week and lags him by fewer than 100 delegates, while a new poll shows Mr. Trumps popularity may be flagging after a wave of new attacks ads.
Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, joked with reporters on Tuesday about rumors of her running for president.
Heres the latest news and analysis of the candidates and issues shaping the presidential race.
Mitt Romney Records Another Anti-Trump Message, This Time for John Kasich
Hillary Clinton Ad Derides Companies Moving Overseas
Fox News Forum May Signal Thaw Between Democrats and Network
What Were Watching as 4 States Vote and Both Parties Court Michigan
Mitt Romney Records Phone Message for Marco Rubios Campaign
I am crestfallen that my candidate, Jeb Bush, is out of the running, said Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who added that she would endorse no one. Perhaps she was just being self-interested. Ms. Collins joked that she and Senator Joe Donnelly, Democrat of Indiana, having recently been named the two most bipartisan senators by a policy think tank, were planning to run on their own ticket. We were worried about having an all-Catholic ticket, Mr. Collins said.Mr. Cruz is one of the least popular senators on Capitol Hill, in large part because he masterminded the 2013 government shutdown in a failed attempt to roll back President Obamas health care law, something Senator Richard Burr, Republican of North Carolina, said at the time was the dumbest idea I have ever heard. Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, wrote Mr. Cruz a letter last year warning him not to try the same tactic over funding for Planned Parenthood. Both are up for re-election.Of course, that was just one offense. Mr. Cruz once took to the Senate floor to call the majority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, a liar, and has called his Republican colleagues a feckless Washington Cartel. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, majors in defense issues and minors in blasting Mr. Cruz.Mr. Cruz has been trying to run as a Washington outsider  which has been rather difficult while standing next to Mr. Trump  and has not really craved any of his colleagues endorsements. But voters may notice that Mr. Cruz is like that summer camper who has only managed to make one true friend  Senator Mike Lee of Utah  who, by the way, has also failed to endorse him. Its something voters may want to weigh, Ms. Collins said.Democrats are hoping that Mr. Cruz could prove as much of a drag on Senate and other down-ballot races as Mr. Trump.On Tuesday, Democrats ostentatiously invited Patty Judge, a former Iowa lieutenant governor and state agriculture secretary, who has decided to seek the Democratic nomination to challenge Senator Charles E. Grassley this fall, to their weekly policy lunch.Mr. Grassley, who is seeking a seventh term, is the chairman of the Judiciary Committee and has come under fire back in Iowa over his refusal to hold hearings on any Supreme Court nominee that Mr. Obama puts forward.Asked if Mr. Cruz could be a less divisive figure than Mr. Trump, whom many Republicans have attacked in recent weeks, Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said: I dont know that. I think everyone will have to make up their own minds.
Follow The New York Timess politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
