U.N. Rights Chief Urges Turkey to Investigate Shooting of Civilians - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Europe|U.N. Rights Chief Urges Turkey to Investigate Shooting of Civilians
U.N. Rights Chief Urges Turkey to Investigate Shooting of Civilians
Zeid Raad al-Hussein, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, at a news conference in Geneva on Monday.
Fabrice Coffrini/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images
GENEVA  The United Nations top human rights official urged Turkey on Monday to investigate a report that the army shot unarmed civilians in the mainly Kurdish southeast, and expressed alarm at a crackdown on journalists and critics of the countrys government.Zeid Raad al-Hussein, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, said Turkish authorities should open an independent investigation of the shooting in the southeastern town of Cizre.The events were captured by what Mr. al-Hussein called an extremely shocking film by a Turkish journalist, which appears to show a group of people, some holding white flags, being shot at while they pushed a cart carrying bodies in view of an armored vehicle.Two people were said to have been killed and nine others wounded in the episode about 10 days ago. The wounded included the journalist who had filmed the shooting, Refik Tekin. The local prosecutors office has issued an arrest warrant for Mr. Tekin, alleging that he is a member of a unnamed terrorist organization.The government has severely limited journalists coverage of the southeast and has arrested some who have covered clashes between the government and Kurdish militants.Mr. al-Hussein acknowledged the major difficulties that Turkey faces in the southeastern part of the country, where security forces are engaged in operations against Kurdish militants. But he also drew attention to deteriorating human rights in the area and emphasized that if state operatives commit human rights violations, they must be prosecuted.The possibility that Mr. Tekin might be detained and prosecuted only deepened Mr. al-Husseins already considerable concern about the Turkish governments treatment of journalists. Filming an atrocity is not a crime, but shooting unarmed civilians most certainly is, he said.The number of journalists convicted of crimes or awaiting trial, along with extraordinarily harsh sentences of life imprisonment that prosecutors have sought against two newspaper editors, cast doubt on Turkeys adherence to rights conventions, Mr. al-Hussein said.A quick way to show that it does, indeed, respect these rights fully would be to free all those, he said, whether they are journalists, academics or human rights defenders, who have been detained or prosecuted simply for recording or criticizing the actions of the state.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
