Volkswagen Inquiry Expands to 17 Suspects - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
International Business|Volkswagen Inquiry Expands to 17 Suspects
A workers council meeting with Volkswagens chief executive, Matthias Mller, second from left, at the companys headquarters in Wolfsburg, Germany, on Tuesday.
FRANKFURT  German prosecutors said on Tuesday that they had expanded their investigation into the illegal manipulation of tailpipe emissions by Volkswagen, raising the number of suspects to 17, from six.
In line with German privacy rules, none of the suspects names were disclosed.So far, no suspects are current or former members of the companys management board, said Klaus Ziehe, a spokesman for the states attorneys office in Braunschweig, a city near Volkswagen headquarters in Wolfsburg.But Mr. Ziehe said that the investigation was continuing, and that prosecutors had not ruled out involvement by top management. We are looking at all levels, including the management board level, he said.Mr. Ziehe declined to say what kinds of jobs the suspects held or where in the company they worked.Volkswagen did not immediately respond to a request for comment.In a second development, French prosecutors have opened a formal fraud investigation into the Volkswagen diesel cheating, following a preliminary inquiry that began in October. Nathalie Homobono, the head of the French anti-fraud authority, said at a news conference on Monday that a preliminary investigation had found that Volkswagens fraud was intentional.
Volkswagen has admitted that millions of its diesel cars worldwide were equipped with software that was used to cheat on emissions tests. The company is now grappling with the fallout.
In the German investigation, the increasing number of suspects, none of whom have been formally charged, raises the stakes for Volkswagen as the company takes a more aggressive stance against accusations that knowledge of the wrongdoing was widespread in the company.In a court filing last week, Volkswagen said that, until last summer, no members of its management board were aware that software in 11 million diesel vehicles had been programmed to cheat on emissions tests. The filing portrayed the software manipulation as the work of individual employees whose activities could not be detected by outsiders.The management board of Volkswagen had no knowledge either of the programming of the impermissible software nor of its later use in affected diesel motors, the company said in a document filed on Feb. 29 as part of its defense against lawsuits by shareholders.The filing was not public, though Volkswagen released a summary last week. The New York Times subsequently acquired a full copy of the document, which was more than 100 pages.The shareholders accuse Volkswagen of violating German laws requiring company managers to disclose information that could affect the share price, so the dates when top managers learned of the wrongdoing are crucial to the court case.The illegal software recognized when a car was being tested and turned up pollution controls. At other times, the cars emitted many times the allowed amount of nitrogen oxides, which are linked to serious lung ailments and premature deaths.In the document, filed with a civil court in Braunschweig, Volkswagen said that the software manipulation had taken place in November 2006 in departments responsible for engine electronics, diesel motor development and motor testing. The cheating occurred, the company said, because Volkswagen employees realized they could not meet emissions rules legally within the time and budget allotted.
Officials at the Environmental Protection Agency and California Air Resources Board began asking questions about Volkswagen emissions in May 2014, after testing by technicians at West Virginia University revealed discrepancies between pollution levels in the lab and on the road.According to the court filing, upper management at Volkswagen initially regarded the discrepancies as a routine technical issue and did not become aware of possible illegal activity until a year later. Even then, based on similar cases, they expected to be able to settle with regulators quietly and pay a fine in the tens of millions of dollars.Volkswagen executives continued to believe that they had good relations with the Environmental Protection Agency until Sept. 18, according to the court filing, and they were shocked when the agency held a news conference to publicly accuse the carmaker of illegal activity. The maximum possible fine for the violation is $18 billion, though the final amount is likely to be substantially less.It was only after the agency went public, Volkswagen said in the filing, that the management board discussed the issue as a group.Mr. Ziehe of the Braunschweig prosecutors office said on Tuesday that investigators were looking into people who had been aware of the wrongdoing and took no action, as well as people responsible for the illegal programming.A team of 20 investigators is working on the case, but it is not possible to say when the team would press formal charges or complete the investigation, Mr. Ziehe said.Matthias Mller, the chief executive of Volkswagen, told workers gathered at the main factory in Wolfsburg on Tuesday that they needed to pull together to overcome the crisis.Together, we must make the necessary changes to safeguard the future of Volkswagen, Mr. Mller said, according to excerpts from his remarks released by the company. Volkswagen is more than just a crisis.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
