Marsannay, Modest but Fully Realized Burgundy - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Of the many beautiful things about good red Burgundy, the most striking is the way the wine keeps changing before you. From the moment you open a bottle and pour the first glass, a cascade of elusive aromas and flavors captures your attention.
They begin gently and delicately, perhaps reminding you of enticing flowers and red fruits. With a little time, they may toughen, with suggestions of rocks and metals, even animals, before sweetening again. They reel you in, toss you back, and just when you believe the wine has reached equilibrium, it changes again. The mind reels. The spirit soars.Forgive me if I sound hyperbolic. Thats how I feel about Burgundy. Its not magic, but it is mystery, and no wine more than Burgundy conveys the inscrutability at the core of all great wines.Forget that rising demand for Burgundy in the last 20 years has sealed its status as a luxury commodity, sending prices soaring. Its enigmatic beauty is what enchants true Burgundy lovers.Here at Wine School, we dont try to demystify wines like Burgundy. We embrace whats wondrous about them as part of their allure. But we do try to understand the different stories that wines have to tell, and we try to be open to hearing them.For the last month, weve been drinking, and listening, to Burgundy. More specifically, weve been drinking Marsannay; that is, wines from pinot noir grown in the commune of Marsannay, the northernmost village of the Cte dOr, the heart of Burgundy.Given the ever-evolving aromas and flavors, Burgundys story may appear to be inconsistent. But while some may suggest that Burgundy is moody and fickle, I would argue instead that its underlying nature is fidelity to its terroir.As usual in Wine School, I recommended three bottles, all Marsannays from the 2013 vintage: Domaine Trapet Pre et Fils; Domaine Bart Les Echezots and Domaine Sylvain Pataille Clos du Roy.I chose Marsannay because in the context of the Cte dOr, its a modest wine. As is true throughout the Cte dOr, the vineyards are organized hierarchically.
At the bottom are the regional wines, made from grapes that come from anywhere within the borders of Burgundy, known as Bourgogne Rouge.At the next level in quality are wines that may be labeled Ctes de Nuits-Villages, from the northern half of the Cte dOr, or Ctes de Beaune-Villages, from the southern half.
The next step, wines from vineyards deemed good enough to bear the name of a particular village, like these three Marsannays, represents a big leap in quality. Some of these village vineyards may even bear a particular name often referred to as a lieu dit, like Les Echezots and Clos du Roy.
Eric Asimov, The New York Times wine critic, is talking about Marsannay Burgundy this month.If you would like to join the conversation, try one of the bottleslisted here and as you try them, ask yourself these questions.
Can you explain, not so much in concrete terms but by how it makes you feel?
Next up are the premier cru vineyards, which are thought to have special characteristics, and at the apex are the grands crus, vineyards considered to have such distinctive potential that they transcend the character of any village.The reason Marsannay is thought to be modest is that not only are no grand cru vineyards within the village limits, there are no premier cru vineyards either. The vineyards of Marsannay only achieved village status in 1987. Before that, the grapes were used for regional wines or to make a pretty good ros.This sense of modesty helps keep prices down in relation to other village Burgundies. Still, at $30 to $50 a bottle, these wines are not cheap, and many readers chose to skip this months discussion. I would never dictate to anybody how to spend a wine budget. But I would say that red Burgundy is a fundamental wine. Simply to know it can be endlessly rewarding.
A monthly column that invites you to drink and discuss wine with Eric Asimov.
The best thing about Marsannay, especially in the hands of good producers like these three, is that the quality far surpasses modest expectations, which makes these wines good values and excellent introductions to the possibilities of Burgundy.Those who were able to find any of these wines or Marsannays from other good producers seemed to agree.Martin Schappeit of Amherst, Va., tried the Pataille with an herb-stuffed chicken. It made me feel euphoric and energized, he said. I was completely taken by surprise.
Others echoed his reaction. Drinking this made me feel cosseted and lucky and perhaps privileged, Ferguson wrote, while John Fraser of Toronto said drinking the Marsannay made him feel warm, cheery.
More so than most other wines, good Burgundies stimulate the emotions. Often, in an effort to master a wine, we focus instead on rational responses and analyses: Does it reflect the vintage? How does it compare with other pinot noir wines? Is it tannic? Balanced? What methods were used in the winery? How was it farmed? All worthy questions, and helpful for understanding a wine.
But its crucial to pay attention to emotions, too. This is the joy of wine, and especially of Burgundy. The further you explore, the more you get to know its complexities, the deeper and more profound the emotional response.The emotions are predicated on years of intellectual study, beginning centuries ago with Cistercian monks, who found a calling in parsing the varying characteristics of the vineyards. When you can smell, taste and  for those whove visited Burgundy  even see the land and its people in a bottle of wine, its stirring.
Sadly, who nowadays can afford the grand crus, which can cost many hundreds, even thousands of dollars? The better premier crus, too, can run in the hundreds.
Thankfully, we still have the pleasures of wines like these Marsannays, which can give some idea of Burgundian notions of terroir. For the record, I loved them all, though each differently. The Bart, for me, was perhaps the simplest and most direct, a riot of fresh, almost brilliant red fruit with an underlying earthy minerality. Of all the wines, I thought it changed the least in the glass.The Trapet, by contrast, seemed ever-changing. Straight from the bottle it was earthier and more tannic than the Bart, with darker, spicier flavors. With time, and especially with food, a stew based on this terrific recipe for pinto beans with bacon, the tannins receded and the wine became savory, almost saline, with an anise quality.The Pataille was fresh like the Bart but richer, a seamless blend of red fruit, flowers, minerals and exotic spices. It seemed as elegant as the Trapet did rustic.
Despite the individual characteristics of each wine, they all meet as expressions of Marsannay, medium-bodied wines with pretty red-fruit and floral aromas and flavors. They may evolve over the course of a meal.With the accompanying chicken, the cherry became a strawberry aroma, said Mel Winokur of New York City, while Cjmoore of Eugene, Ore., wrote, They also changed constantly as we sniffed, tasted, then enjoyed with cheeses and our dinner.Thats what Burgundy does, one of the many things that make it beautiful.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
