No patient privacy: Texas health workers turn in undocumented woman during gynecology appointment
WATCH: Newt Gingrich has a complete meltdown after Foxs Megyn Kelly calls Trump a sexual predatorBill Maher drops truth bomb on why people are ditching religion: They know bullshit when they smell itREVEALED: Wisconsin clerk limits voting near campus because students lean more toward the DemocratsArizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio formally charged with criminal contemptBlitzer confronts Kellyanne Conway on whether Trump knows what Obamacare does after Florida fiascoHere are 4 ways Trump supporters might harass you at the polls and what you can do about itTrump campaign releases their electoral map predictionTrump acted like total f*cking beast at coke-fueled parties with teen girls: reportMichael Moore advises Bible-thumping View host: Dont get gay married  you wont like itXavier University students outraged by photos of student in blackface, Trump-inspired mock lynchingNo patient privacy: Texas health workers turn in undocumented woman during gynecology appointment Tom Boggioni13 Sep 2015 at 17:39 ET
A mother who showed up at a Texas healthcare clinic for her annual gynecological exam is facing deportation after clinic staffers called authorities and stalled her for them until they arrived.
The Houston Press is reporting that Blanca Borrego and her two daughters were delayed at the Northeast Womens Healthcare clinic in Atascocita for several hours, before healthcare workers showed the woman to an examination room where authorities entered minutes later and arrested her.
According to Borregos oldest daughter, she watched Harris County Sheriffs deputies march her mother out of the clinic in handcuffs.
Were going to take her downtown, she presented a form of false identification, she recalled the deputy saying, before adding, Shes going to get deported.
According to Borregos attorney, Clarissa Guajardo, Borrego was a first-time visitor to the clinic to see her doctor with whom she had a previous relationship. After giving clinic workers a fake drivers license she was told to wait as, unbeknownst to her, authorities were called.
Guajardos attorney believes that clinic workers may have violated medical privacy laws.
They took her into that examination room solely for the purpose of being arrested, Guajardo said in an interview. I just have a very hard time with that. I think its a violation of HIPAA laws.
While exemptions to HIPAA laws exist they are generally used when a patient threatens to physical harm to himself or others.
According to her family, Borrego is being held in Harris County jail on a $35,000 bond and they are worried that she may be deported if convicted on felony charges of tampering with a government record because she also had a fake Social Security card in her purse.
When pressed by the Houston Press if it is the clinics policy to contact authorities if staffers suspect patients of being undocumented immigrants, Memorial Hermann  the parent company of Northwest Womens Healthcare  spokeswoman Alex Loessin answered, As you know, because of patient privacy, I am unable to provide comment.
Report typos and corrections to corrections@rawstory.com
About the AuthorTom Boggioni is based in the quaint seaside community of Pacific Beach in less quaint San Diego. He writes about politics, media, culture, and other annoyances. Mostly he spends his days at the beach gazing at the horizon waiting for the end of the world, or the sun to go down. Whichever comes first.
Next on Raw Story >WATCH: Newt Gingrich has a complete meltdown after Foxs Megyn Kelly calls Trump a sexual predator
By commenting, you agree to our terms of service and to abide by our commenting policy.Read Comments - Join the Discussion
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTERGet the best of Raw Story, delivered daily
WATCH: Newt Gingrich has a complete meltdown after Foxs Megyn Kelly calls Trump a sexual predator
Tim Kaine recounts missionary work to court Mormon vote
Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio formally charged with criminal contempt
Blitzer confronts Kellyanne Conway on whether Trump knows what Obamacare does after Florida fiasco
Katrina Pierson dismisses adult stars sexual assault claims against Trump as promoting her industry
Trump asks team to trim back transition efforts, focus on race: sources
WATCH: Newt Gingrich has a complete meltdown after Foxs Megyn Kelly calls Trump a sexual predator
Heavily armed man arrested after threatening Columbine-style attack on Southern California mosque
Tim Kaine recounts missionary work to court Mormon vote
WATCH: Newt Gingrich has a complete meltdown after Foxs Megyn Kelly calls Trump a sexual predator
Blitzer confronts Kellyanne Conway on whether Trump knows what Obamacare does after Florida fiasco
Katrina Pierson dismisses adult stars sexual assault claims against Trump as promoting her industry
Trump advocate suggests replacing Obamacare with federalism program that sounds just like Obamacare
Pollsters on Fox unleash brutal truth: Trump win would take a comeback of historic proportions
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTERGet the best of Raw Story, delivered daily
