Supreme court upholds 'celebrity threesome' injunction | Law | The Guardian
Supreme court upholds 'celebrity threesome' injunction
Full trial expected later this year following decision by court after four-month dispute involving Sun on Sunday
The case has escalated into a public battle over the issue of whether or not injunctions banning publication in print can be sustained in the era of the internet.
The supreme court has extended the interim privacy injunction preventing identification of a celebrity who has been involved in a three-way sexual encounter.
The case has escalated into a public battle over the issue of whether or not injunctions banning publication can be sustained in the era of the internet, when websites beyond national jurisdictions can be read in the UK.
Lifting of 'celebrity threesome' injunction would be 'devastating'
The decision by the countrys highest court follows a four-month legal dispute involving the Sun on Sunday. A full trial of the issue is expected later this year.
The claimant, known in court only as PJS and whose identity will continue to be disguised at least until then, is said to have had an extramarital affair with another couple about four years ago.
The couple approached the Sun on Sunday in January this year and told reporters about the relationship. The paper, which planned to publish the story, contacted PJSs lawyers, initiating the courtroom dispute.
Delivering the courts judgment by a four-to-one majority, Lord Mance said there was no public interest in naming PJS and that revealing details of the affair would breach the familys privacy.
Publication of the story would infringe privacy rights of PJS, his partner and their children, he said.  There is no public interest, however much it may be of interest to some members of the public, in publishing kiss-and-tell stories or criticisms of private sexual conduct, simply because the persons involved are well-known; and so there is no right to invade privacy by publishing them.
It is different if the story has some bearing on the performance of a public office or the correction of a misleading public impression cultivated by the person involved. But  that does not apply here.
The Independent Press Standards Code, to which the Sun on Sunday subscribes, Mance noted, requires editors to demonstrate an exceptional public interest to override the normally paramount interests of the children.
Referring to the fact that many of the details had already been published online, Mance added: It is true the story has been accessible on the internet and social media but if the injunction were to be lifted, there would be intensive coverage of the story by the Sun on Sunday  and there is little doubt, by other newspapers  as well as unrestricted internet and social media coverage, all of which could constitute additional and potentially more enduring invasions of the privacy of PJS, his partner and their children.
The supreme court justices said that in their balancing exercise  weighing up the conflicting interests of article 10 of the European convention on human rights, guaranteeing freedom of expression, and article 8, guaranteeing privacy  they believed that at any full trial of the issue the injunction would be likely to be upheld.
The high court refused the application for an injunction but, on appeal, the court of appeal granted PJS an interim injunction. Subsequently, a magazine in the US published the story, naming the parties involved.
Several other publications in the US, Canada and Scotland picked up the story, and details appeared on numerous websites. Newspapers in England published stories based on the redacted court of appeal judgment.
News Group Newspapers applied to have the injunction set aside on the basis that the protected information had entered the public domain. The court of appeal granted their application.
Desmond Browne QC, representing PJS, had earlier told the supreme court: This case has been hailed by some as the deathknell of the privacy injunction. We hope that reports of its death have been greatly exaggerated. Naming the celebrity would be devastating for the familys children, Browne warned.
In the judgment on Thursday, Mance added: Some may still question whether the case merits the weight of legal attention which it has received. But the law is there to protect the legitimate interests of those whose conduct may appear unappealing, as well as of children with no responsibility for such conduct.
The courts refusal to lift the injunction has been pilloried by some papers. Mance noted the onslaught: The court is well aware of the lesson which King Canute gave his courtiers, he said.
Unlike Canute, the courts can take steps to enforce its injunction pending trial. As to the Mail onlines portrayal of the law as an ass, if that is the price of applying the law, it is one which must be paid  It is unlikely that the heavens will fall at our decision.
The celebrity threesome case risks undermining the law | Joshua Rozenberg
It will simply give the appellant, his partner and their young children a measure of temporary protection against further and repeated invasions of privacy pending a full trial which will not have been rendered substantially irrelevant by disclosure of relatively ancient sexual history.
The one dissenting judgment came from Lord Toulson, an expert on the law of confidentiality. He disputed whether allowing PJS to be named would prevent him pursing a subsequent civil trial for damages against the newspaper.
I do not agree the trial would be rendered irrelevant, he said in his judgment. I would not rule out the possibility of the courts considering [an exemplary] award to be necessary and proportionate in order to deter flagrant breaches of privacy and provide adequate protection for the person concerned.
He added: The story is not going to go away, injunction or no injunction  [The children] are very young and there are various steps which their parents can take to shield them from immediate publicity  It is inevitable in the longer term that the children will learn about these matters and their parents have no doubt already considered how they propose to handle it.
Toulson also noted: Once it has become readily available to anyone who wants to know it, it has lost the essence of confidentiality. The court must live in the world as it is and not as it would like it to be.
Victoria Newton, editor of the Sun on Sunday, said that her paper was disappointed by the courts decision. We have maintained throughout that the story was legitimate public interest journalism.
Todays ruling ignores that this is a story that has been printed around the world and published on blogs and social media easily accessible in this country and we echo the dissenting Judge Lord Toulsons opinion that the court must live in the world as it is and not as it would like it to be.
The Sun on Sunday will continue to fight to publish stories that we believe the public should know and the stories which people have a right to tell.
The paper has the right to appeal against the decision and it is understood it is considering its position in consultation with lawyers.
Insiders fear the judgment could herald the end of kiss and tells in Fleet Street. The judges are deluded when it comes to the internet, one source said. They live in the dark ages if they think the internet hasnt changed things. This ruling doesnt advance the issue any further than the Leveson inquiry which had a single paragraph on the internet. Maybe they think its a one-hit wonder and it will disappear.
The judges ruled that exposure of someones sexual life was at the lower end of the spectrum of importance in relation to freedom of expression. The decision is being assessed by all newspaper groups and by any celebrities planning to seek an injunction against publishers.
Media lawyer Mark Stephens said the case could be the most significant since the infamous 1986 Spycatcher case when the government attempted to stop the media reporting allegations of misconduct in MI5 in the memoirs of a retired secret service employee.
Its the judgment I expected them to make, but ultimately we need to revisit this area since the last time this was looked at was the Spycatcher case, said Stephens. He said the same issues about porous information borders were at play.
Then, the House of Lords said an injunction was an exercise in futility as the book was published in Australia and newspapers were bringing copies into the country in suitcases and filming it to expose the weakness in the governments attempt to ban the book.
Peter Wrights book was banned in the UK and the House of Lords overturned the government injunction blocking the Guardian and Observer reporting its contents.
Reputational management lawyer Michael Patrick said the supreme court had made clear it would not be bullied by the media but said it will be a brave celebrity that seeks privacy injunctions in the future.
Patrick said legal action provided limited protection in the era of the internet. An injunction granted by the English courts will never eliminate the risk of the story being published elsewhere.
A couple approach the Sun on Sunday with details of their relationship with a well-known married individual, subsequently referred to in a legal judgment by the initials PJS.
The paper contacts the entertainers lawyers, initiating a courtroom dispute as he seeks to prevent reporting about his alleged extramarital affair.
Lawyers for PJS and his partner, referred to as YMA, apply for a ban on publication. They fail to persuade a high court judge but are granted an interim injunction allowing them to appeal against the decision to the higher court.
In an anonymised judgment, the court of appeal rules that the Sun on Sunday cannot publish the story because PJS, who has an open relationship, had an expectation that his sexual encounters would remain private.
A Scottish newspaper prints the identities of the couple who took the injunction stating that it is doing so in order to champion free speech and a free press. It comes after details of the story are published in a US newspaper.
It emerges that Google has removed links to articles about the celebrity couple at the centre of the injunction in response to legal requests. Separately, an international edition of a newspaper distributed in England names a blog that has published the couples identity.
The Guardian and other media organisations win the right to report on the appeal hearing, which has raised the issue of whether injunctions restricting reporting can be enforced in the era of the internet. Judges delay their decision on whether to lift the injunction.
News Group Newspapers, publishers of the Sun and its sister Sunday title, win an application to have the injunction lifted, after telling the court earlier that the celebrity had already been named so widely online and in publications in the US and Scotland that the injunction was effectively redundant and unenforceable.
The injunction banning the media naming the celebrity involved in an extra-marital affair is extended for another two days by the supreme court. Lawyers for PJS succeed in having their claim fast-tracked to the supreme court in Westminster, which decides the case is important enough to have a hearing later in the week.
Desmond Browne QC, representing PJS, tells the bench of five justices at the supreme court that identifying a celebrity would be giving in to the rule of the press. Gavin Millar QC, for News Groups Newspapers, disputes that his clients had been solely responsible for provoking debate about the privacy case.
The supreme court posts a statement on its website announcing that it will deliver its long-awaited decision on the privacy injunction on 19 May.
The supreme court rules that the interim injunction will not be lifted.
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
