Facebook recommended that this psychiatrists patients friend each other | Fusion
Facebook recommended that this psychiatrists patients friend eachother
Facebook recommended that this psychiatrists patients friend eachother
Watch what happens when sick kids stuck in a hospital get to wear virtual reality headsets
NSA Invades Virtual Privacy In Second Life, World of Warcraft
Kashmir Hill is the editor of Fusion's Real Future. She has hacked a stranger's smart home, lived on Bitcoin & paid a surprise visit to the NSA's Utah datacenter, all while trying to prove privacy... more
Facebooks ability to figure out the people we might know is sometimes eerie. Many a Facebook user has been creeped out when a one-time Tinder date or an ex-boss from 10 years ago suddenly pops up as a friend recommendation. How does the big blue giant know?
While some of these incredibly accurate friend suggestions are amusing, others are alarming, such as this story from Lisa*, a psychiatrist who is an infrequent Facebook user, mostly signing in to RSVP for events. Last summer, she noticed that the social network had started recommending her patients as friendsand she had no idea why.
I havent shared my email or phone contacts with Facebook, she told me over the phone.
Most of her patients are senior citizens or people with serious health or developmental issues, but she has one outlier: a 30-something snowboarder. Usually, Facebook would recommend he friend people his own age, who snowboard and jump out of planes. But Lisa told me that he had started seeing older and infirm people, such as a 70-year-old gentleman with a walker and someone with cerebral palsy.
He laughed and said, I dont know any of these people who showed up on my list Im guessing they see you,' recounted Lisa. He showed me the list of friend recommendations, and I recognized some of my patients.
She sat there awkwardly and silently. To let him know that his suspicion was correct would violate her duty to protect her patients privacy.
Another one of her female patients had a friend recommendation pop up for a fellow patient she recognized from the offices elevator. Suddenly, she knew the other patients full name along with all their Facebook profile information.
Its a massive privacy fail, said Lisa. I have patients with HIV, people that have attempted suicide and women in coercive and violent relationships.
Lisa lives in a relatively small town and was alarmed that Facebook was inadvertently outing people with health and psychiatric issues to her network. Shes a tech-savvy person, familiar with VPNs, Tor and computer security practices recommended by the Electronic Frontier Foundationbut she had no idea what was causing it.
She hadnt friended any of her patients on Facebook, nor looked up their profiles. She didnt have a guest wifi network at the office that they were all using. After seeing my report that Facebook was using location from peoples smartphones to make friend recommendations, she was convinced this happened because she had logged into Facebook at the office on her personal computer. She thought that Facebook had figured out that she and her patients were all in the same place repeatedly. However, Facebook says it only briefly used location for friend recommendations in a test and that it was just at the city-level.
I tried to help Lisa figure out what could be causing this and reached out to Facebook about the case. Unfortunately, due to health privacy reasons, Lisa was not able to put me in touch with her patients directly.
When Lisa looked at her Facebook profile, she was surprised to see that she had, at some point, given Facebook her cell phone number. Its a number that her patients could also have in their phones. Many people dont realize that if they give Facebook access to their phone contacts, it uses that information to make friend recommendations; so if your ex-boss or your one-time Tinder date or your psychiatrist is a contact in your phone, you might start seeing them pop up in the People You May Know list.
Thats my guess as to how this happened. All these patients likely have Lisas number in their phones, so an algorithm analyzing this network of phone contacts might reasonably assume all these people are connected. A phone number alone can be quite a revealing bit of information, which is why its so significant that WhatsApp is about to share its one billion users phone numbers with Facebook, where they too could be used to make friend recommendations (unless you opt out).
A Facebook spokesperson could not confirm this theory. He said the company didnt have enough information to figure out why patients were recommended to one another as friends.
People You May Know is based on a variety of factors, including mutual friends, work and education information, networks youre part of, contacts youve imported and many other factors, said the spokesperson by email. Without additional information from the people involved, were not able to explain why one person was recommended as a friend to another.
This is totally reasonable, but also frustrating in that it leaves this mystery unsolved.
Lisas medical community has started recommending that patients concerned about privacy not log into Facebook or other social media accounts at medical offices, or even leave their phones in their cars during appointments. Thats likely good advice, but it doesnt stop Facebook from mining their phone numbers.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is protecting his privacy withtapeHow an internet mapping glitch turned a random Kansas farm into a digitalhellHow to see the contacts you may have unknowingly handed over toFacebook
External links are provided for reference purposes. Fusion is not responsible for the content of external internet sites.
 2016 Fusion Media Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP.
