Is AVG planning to sell user data to advertisers following privacy policy change? | Computing
The IT Leaders Dining Club is an exclusive, invitation-only organisation comprising the UKs top CIOs, CTOs and other technologists and business leaders.
The UK IT Industry Awards are the benchmark for excellence throughout the computer industry.
The IT Leaders Forum brings together the senior IT professionals who drive technology decisions within major UK enterprises. Our next event will be Learning from the Leaders in Big Data on 23 June.
Enterprise Security and Risk Management Summit 2016
The Enterprise Security and Risk Management Summit is a leading annual conference that brings together over 200 CIOs and Senior IT professionals from across all industries to discuss and debate the most pressing security issues facing business today.
Computing hosts a series of online debates each with a panel of industry experts discussing trending topics. Register for upcoming and view previous debates on our webinar channelSee more
Make your data and applications secure and easy to access  anytime, anywhere
Digital transformation is creating disruptive change across every major industry, with customer expectation driving rapid innovation. Using the case of a typical online retailer as an example, this paper demonstrates how Citrix technology enables enterprises to turn disruptive change into operational and competitive advantage. Download now to find out more.
Problem or productive? 10 ways big data can develop your business
Big data - a vendor-driven and overhyped phrase which can trigger eye-rolling and disinterest. However, whether we like it or not, big data is here to stay, and changing the status quo. Problems we thought were unsolvable now have answers due to data development. Read on to find out more about the 10 ways big data can support your business success.
Access your subscription from outside of the office
Get relevant news and insight straight to your inbox
Access your subscription from outside of the office
Get relevant news and insight straight to your inbox
Is AVG planning to sell user data to advertisers following privacy policy change?
New privacy policy appears to allow AVG to sell user data to advertisers - but the company denies the accusation by privacy campaigner
Czech Republic-based security software vendor AVG, producer of one of the world's most popular anti-virus software suites, has come under fire over it's privacy policy, which appears to allow it to sell...
Having trouble logging in? First try resetting your password Reset now
Alternatively, contact our customer service team. Phone: +44 1858 483 800 Email: business.enquiries@incisivemedia.com
Register today for free access to Computing's premium print, online and mobile content:
Cutting-edge Technology on the Go with our mobile live app
Tech entrepreneur and founder of SpaceX explains his mission to build a city on Mars
Brexit: Falling pound fails to dampen UK's cloud appetite
Whilst the drop in Sterling's value against the dollar is causing pain for some, as US-based cloud services become more expensive, few firms are considering switching suppliers just yet
The fragility of our connectivity to uninterrupted communication leaves us vulnerablesays NetScout president
Professionals who develop and maintain systems becoming increasingly important, says Anil Singhal
CEO Jack Dorsey renews efforts to tart-up Twitter for sale
 Incisive Business Media (IP) Limited, Published by Incisive Business Media Limited, Haymarket House, 28-29 Haymarket, London SW1Y 4RX, are companies registered in England and Wales with company registration numbers 9177174 & 9178013
