WHSmith appears to have suffered a data privacy breach - Business Insider
People are freaking out because WHSmith is accidentally emailing customer contact details to other customers
On Wednesday morning many WHSmith customersstarted
receiving hundreds of emails containing personal details
forthe company's other customers. It appears that every
time someone used WHSmith's contact form their message is then
Some of the early emails contained sensitive information like
Anyone else getting dozens of emails via @WHSmith contact form ? Including phone numbers pic.twitter.com/960EZYNSSE  Lynn Schreiber
Unfortunate that every time someone emails @WHSmith about magazine subscriptions it's going to *everyone* on the database. Details too.		 Jono Read
Seriously @WHSmith - 18 emails containing other peoples details and still counting......		 Rob Weatherhead
It appears that for a few hours WHSmith only hid the contact
props to @WHSmith for their quick incident response removing the broken form from thei... oh wait pic.twitter.com/AGrYNRkoE1  Alice Maz
When people started to realise what was happening, they went to
the company's contact form to make a complaint. But this meant
that other customers received copies of those emails too.
While some people were understandably worried that their personal
information is being sent to the inboxes of hundreds of
strangers, others used the bug to send very public messages
Favourite #whsmith hack email so far  you have a great day too! pic.twitter.com/bpsvd3hXYy  Millie Bushell
One even took advantage of the situation to ask the company
Seems people didn't receive my email  tried to make the best out of a bad situation. WHSmith @WHSmith pic.twitter.com/u92EjlstUV  Emily Willson
Some customers managed to get through to WHSmith, but
Just spoke to @WHSmith - they are aware of and sorry for data breach. I'm still receiving private details of strangers #whsmithfail.		 Ke Day
released a statement to the Guardian, which puts the huge
breach down to a "bug" in the system used to processes its
magazine subscriptions. The company says this process is managed
The statement said: We have been alerted to a systems processing
bug by I-subscribe, who manage our magazine subscriptions. It is
a bug not a data breach. We believe that this has impacted fewer
than 40 customers who left a message on the Contact Us page
where this bug was identified, that has resulted in some
customers receiving emails this morning that have been
I-subscribe have immediately taken down their Contact Us
online form which contains the identified bug, while this is
resolved. I-subscribe are contacting the customers concerned to
apologise for this administrative processing error. We can
confirm that this issue has not impacted or compromised any
customer passwords or payment details and we apologise to the
A WHSmith Magazines spokeswoman told Business Insider
on Wednesday that the problem was down to a technical issue that
the IT department was looking into, and hoped to resolve soon.
The spokeswoman confirmed that customers that are on the
company's mailing list for magazine subscriptions were being
NOW WATCH: Here's what the US would look like if all the Earth's ice melted
People are freaking out because WHSmith is accidentally emailing customer contact details to other customers
People are freaking out because WHSmith is accidentally emailing customer contact details to other customers
Brothers share what it was like quitting their corporate jobs to sell ties on the beach and cofound Vineyard Vines, a company worth nearly $1 billion
Soccer star Alex Morgan on her family: 'All that you will achieve, you will owe to them.' Check out the letter from the Olympic gold-medal winner to her 7-year-old self >>
* Copyright  2016 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
