Google will let companies target ads using your email address - The Verge
Google will let companies target ads using your email address
Google will soon let advertisers tap into one of the most lucrative types of ad targeting: email addresses. The search giant is rolling out a new tool calledCustomer Match,which lets advertisers use a list of email addresses to target specific users across Google services. To be targeted through this technique, you only need to be logged into your Google account and have given your email address to a retailer, perhaps by buying something from their website or giving it out to sign up for a loyalty program. Google says the individual email addresses are anonymized through Customer Match. That means companies won't be able to create personalized profiles of individuals, but they will still be compiling lists with general customer habits like YouTube viewing and Google search histories to target ads with.
For instance, Google will let a retailer you've shopped at upload your email address to Customer Match so that it can serve up ads while you're watching YouTube, searching Google for related products, or checking your Gmail inbox while signed into that email account. The ad product also lets companies create a general audience profile based on existing customers' habits and interests to target new customers when they use Google services.
Google rose to the upper echelon of tech titans by amassing a lion's share of the web advertising market. Now, the company is looking for new forms of ad revenue as more consumers gravitate toward mobile devices, where an ad's money-making potential is reduced. Further complicating Google's position arestrategic moves from Apple and Facebook to reduce the strength of the web. Apple is doing this by allowing new ad-blocking software on iOS 9, accessible only from using its own mobile Safari web browser as opposed to Google's Chrome. Facebook, on the other hand, has created a robust web and mobile ad service from within its social network while expanding the variety of the web's information, from news articles to videos, users can access right from their News Feed.
By tapping into email addresses, as both Facebook and Twitter do with their own respective products, Google can take higher cuts of the more costly and better targeted ads being served even from within the Gmail and YouTube apps on mobile devices. Google calls Customer Match a "privacy-safe" product, but that may not quell the concern of users who feel that advertisers are getting even more specific with their ad targeting.
Black Mirror's third season opens with a vicious take on social media
From Texas to the Smithsonian, following a trail of sexual misconduct
Xiaomi is selling the concept phone of your wildest dreams
Ubers self-driving truck company just completed its first shipment: 50,000 cans of Budweiser
This Article has a component height of 6. The sidebar size is medium.
Google Fiber will lay off employees as it shifts to wireless
Access, the Alphabet internet division containing Google Fiber, will lay off employees and replace its CEO as it looks for cheaper ways to deliver internet service to new cities.
Current Access CEO Craig Barratt made the announcementin a blog...
Jony Ive and Marc Newsons latest collaboration is a Christmas tree
Apples chief design officer Jony Ive and and industrial designer Marc Newson are designing a new, exclusive project in time for the holidays: a Christmas tree.
The tree is part of London hotel Claridges seasonal celebration, the hotel announced...
Apple's Services division is the one bright spot in a down fiscal 2016
During its earnings call today, Apple CEO Tim Cook put the focus on the company's Services division, which contains Apple Music, iTunes, Apple Pay, and the App Store, and grew 24 percent year-over-year in an otherwise down year for the company....
Apple CEO Tim Cook thinks technology could 'revolutionize' the car experience
Much has been said aboutApples fledgling automative efforts, with reports of its Project Titan car division shifting its focus away from building a vehicle and toward automation and software. Today on an earnings call, CEO Tim Cook offered...
Apple's Big Expensive iPad push has kept iPad revenue flat, at least for now
Apple just reported its fourth quarter earnings for 2016,showing a decline in iPhone sales for the third consecutive quarter and the first full-year drop in revenue since 2001. iPad sales were down as well, both year over year (-6 percent) and...
Apple just had its first annual revenue decline since 2001
For the first time since 2001, Apple's annual revenue has declined year over year, falling from $233.7 billion in 2015 to $217 billion in the 2016 fiscal year. That 9 percent decline marks the first annual revenue drop since 2001, largely due to...
