Sprint hit with largest-ever 'Do Not Call' fine - May. 19, 2014
Our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy have changed.
By continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the new Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
4 reasons why Venezuela became the world's worst economy
Apple's annual sales fall for first time since 2001
How a leather bag startup hit $1M in sales in 14 months
This man either received an unwanted marketing call from Sprint or is seeing a photo of his sideburns for the first time.
When it comes to "Do Not Call" requests, Sprint apparently hasn't gotten the message.
The Federal Communications Commission announced Monday that the wireless carrier will pay a $7.5 million fine for failing to honor requests from consumers to opt out of phone and text-message marketing campaigns. As part of the settlement, Sprint (S) has to set up a compliance program and provide regular reports to regulators for the next two years.
The fine comes after Sprint reached a similar settlement over "Do Not Call" violations with regulators back in 2011, paying a $400,000 fine.
"When a consumer tells a company to stop calling or texting with promotional pitches, that request must be honored," FCC enforcement chief Travis LeBlanc said in a statement.
Related: Republican robocall firm slapped with $3 million fine
Sprint said the settlement "relates to issues resulting from technical and inadvertent human errors, which Sprint reported to the FCC."
"We have conducted a thorough, top-to-bottom evaluation of our Do Not Call data management systems, and significant capital investments have been made to improve our Do Not Call/SMS Message architecture, oversight and compliance," the company said.
The fine is the largest ever from the FCC in a "Do Not Call" case, though it's safe to say Sprint's not sweating it -- the company brought in $8.9 billion in sales in the first three months of this year alone.
Americans can opt out of telemarketing communications thanks to a 2003 law that set up the national "Do Not Call" registry. You can sign up for the registry online at www.donotcall.gov.
Trump campaign launches nightly 'newscast' on Facebook
Transferring your debt to a 21-month 0% intro APR is ingenious
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar:  2016 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2016. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poors Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices  S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2016 and/or its affiliates.
 2016 Cable News Network. A Time Warner Company. All Rights Reserved.
