Botched database leaks records for 191 million voters
BlackBerry's third Android phone packs a fingerprint sensor
NHTSA advice aims to keep connected cars safe from hackers
AI-powered security cameras recognize small details faster
Lyft's monthly passes lower the cost of your carpooling
Microsoft makes its deep learning tools available to all
Google's home delivery service now covers most of the US
VW will begin buying back diesel vehicles in mid-November
Botched database leaks records for 191 million voters
If you've voted in the US since 2000, there's a chance your personal info is out in the wild.
Did you vote in a US election sometime this century?
Researcher Chris Vickery has discovered that a badly configured database exposed the voter registration info for 191 million Americans, including addresses, party affiliations and state voter IDs.
It's not clear who originally managed the data, but Vickery and Databreaches.net are reaching out to everyone from online services to Congressional political action committees.
The two are also contacting law enforcement in hopes of shutting down the leak, although it's not certain that officials are taking action.
The consequences of this database falling into the wrong hands could be severe, as you might have guessed.
Less-than-scrupulous marketers and political campaigns could exploit the data, and criminals could combine it with other info to commit fraud or theft.
It's a particularly big problem for people who need to keep their details secret, such as stalking victims and police.
Beyond this, the leak illustrates the need for stricter, consistent security standards around voter data -- while states like California and South Dakota have sharp limits on where records go and what they're used for, other states (including Alaska, Arkansas and Colorado) have no real restrictions.
There's a real possibility that this kind of incident could happen again.[Image credit: Getty Images]
Lyft's monthly passes lower the cost of your carpooling
The experiment is more affordable than paying for rides one at a time.
Microsoft makes its deep learning tools available to all
The open-source Cognitive Toolkit will let anyone train their own AI.
Disney makes facial capture tech more practical for movies
You can train the system to spot expressions in a fraction of the usual time.
Rockstar liquidates cheaters' 'GTA Online' bank accounts
You had to know that code heist would catch up with you someday.
Facebook teases an app that makes live video look like fine art
