House Votes to Extend Patriot Act - 

Politics|House Votes to Extend Patriot Act Provisions
WASHINGTON  The House on Monday voted to reauthorize and extend through Dec. 8 three ways in which Congress expanded the Federal Bureau of Investigations counterterrorism powers after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.Last week, an effort to extend these provisions of the so-called Patriot Act and a related intelligence law failed to pass after falling just short of the two-thirds majority needed under a special rule. On Monday, however, the bill was able to pass with only a simple majority  and it did so, 275 to 144.The provisions allow investigators to get roving wiretap court orders allowing them to follow terrorism suspects who switch phone numbers or providers; to get orders allowing them to seize any tangible things relevant to a security investigation, like a businesss customer records; and to get national-security wiretap orders against non-citizen suspects who are not connected to any foreign power.Without new legislation, the provisions would expire on Feb. 28. House Republicans pressed the short-term extension so the Judiciary Committee, which is now under Republican control, could hold hearings on them.During the debate on Monday, most Republicans argued in favor of the bill, while many Democrats criticized it. Still, the debate did not break down entirely along partisan lines.
Sixty-five Democrats voted for it, including Representative C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger of Maryland, the ranking Democrat on the Intelligence Committee, who argued that he thought it would be better to go even further and extend the provisions through 2013  as the Obama administration wants to do.And 27 Republicans voted against it, including Representative Dana Rohrabacher, Republican of California, who said the American people had a legitimate fear of out-of-control prosecutors and out-of-control spy networks.Because there is little time left before the provisions expire, it is likely that the Senate will approve the Houses bill  putting off a larger debate over the provisions until later in the year.Senators have been debating their own proposals, which include reauthorizing the provisions through 2013 but imposing greater
safeguards on them, or making the provisions permanent without modifications.Congress overwhelmingly passed the original Patriot Act in October 2001. Over time, it became a symbol of eroding civil liberties and privacy rights for those who believed that government power had expanded too far. Supporters of the law have often accused its critics of exaggerating its risks and of being willing to endanger the
A version of this article appears in print on February 15, 2011, on page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: House Votes to Extend Patriot Act Provisions.

House Vote 36  Temporarily Extends Patriot Act Provisions
House Vote 36  Temporarily Extends Patriot Act Provisions

