NSA leaks: how to make surveillance both ethical and effective
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/jun/11/make-surveillance-ethical-and-effective
What have we learned in the past week? First, that analysts in Americas National Security Agency are able, with legal authority, to access much of the internet traffic of those they suspect of being terrorists, narcotics traffickers, arms proliferators and no doubt other international criminals. Surprised? I think most people would have imagined that was what a modern signals intelligence agency like the NSA (and Britains GCHQ) was for. And most reasonable people would have welcomed the security that such intelligence can bring our nations. Second, weve learned that the NSA has allowed British intelligence – through GCHQ – to benefit from that capability. Surprised again? We have had a close relationship since the second world war, when Britain shared the achievements of Bletchley Park with the Americans. Now the US helps Britain stay safe, staying within British law. Personally I am delighted at this evidence that our transatlantic co-operation extends in this hi-tech way into the 21st century, when so much communication is carried on the internet. It would be good, nevertheless, if the UK security authorities were able to identify directly themselves more of the traffic of terrorists and serious criminals that threaten us, and I hope amended interception legislation will be presented to parliament soon. Third, the internet companies named in the original leak have confirmed that they do not allow NSA to roam at will over their servers and read all our emails and Facebook pages. But, yes, the companies confirm they comply with American law and allow NSA access to required material on their suspects. Frankly, it would be scandalous if they did not. At the heart of this is a misunderstanding about what intelligence in the internet age really involves. For some the misunderstanding may well be deliberate, to advance other agendas about privacy, but I suspect for most it is because the authorities have not done enough to explain to parliament and the public how they go about balancing our rights to security and to privacy. Unlike the old days of interception by getting the Post Office to put crocodile clips on the suspects telephone wire, the way to access the internet communications data of suspects is by legal co-operation with the internet companies. This involves computers searching through a mass of material, of course, and that might include your and my emails and data on our web traffic, but it is only the legally requested material that ever gets seen by a human being. These computers are not conscious beings: they will only select that which they are lawfully programmed to select. To describe this process as monitoring all our communications or the surveillance state or a snoopers charter is wholly misleading and a perverse reading of the situation. So we should not fuss too much about these specific revelations. But we should certainly not stop debating the underlying issues as technology continues to advance: about how governments go about balancing rights and responsibilities as they try both to keep us safe and to maintain a free and open society in which privacy is respected. We need therefore to be clearer about the ethical principles that should apply. I believe it would help public debate if those principles were set down and endorsed by the parliamentary intelligence services oversight committee. I would suggest six such principles. There must be sufficient sustainable cause. Any tendency for the secret world to encroach into areas unjustified by the scale of potential harm to national interests has to be checked. British legislation already does this satisfactorily in terms of the limited purposes for which intelligence can be collected. There must be integrity of motive. No hidden agendas: the integrity of the whole system throughout the intelligence process must be assured, from collection to analysis and presentation. The methods used must be proportionate. Their likely impact must be proportionate to the harm that is sought to prevent, for example by using only the minimum intrusion necessary into the private affairs of others. There must be right and lawful authority. There must be the right level of sign-off on sensitive operations, with accountability up a recognised chain of command to permit effective oversight. There must be a reasonable prospect of success. All intelligence operations need careful risk management, and before approval is given there has to be consideration of the likelihood of unintended consequences and the impact if the operation were to be exposed or otherwise go wrong. Recourse to secret intelligence must be a last resort. There should be no reasonable alternative way of acquiring the information by non-secret methods. Self-confessed leaker Edward Snowden says the unconstrained collection of electronic intelligence is destroying civil liberties and creating the conditions for tyranny. Like the pacifists of the two world wars, this is an absolute and principled stand. But like those pacifists, the continued freedom of our society ultimately rests on the refusal of the rest of us to accept such an extreme position, and on our willingness to recognise that an ethical balancing act is needed. So let us respect the work of our intelligence agencies in keeping us safe, and be glad that in our democratic societies they are subject to the rule of law. And for the future let us ensure that they have the tools to keep up with the newest technologies. If we do not, then the only winners will be the enemies of a free and open society.
