Google Buzz Privacy Issues Have Real Life Implications
9th Annual CrunchiesPrices Increase On Wednesday For The Tech Awards Show Of The Year
Reminder: Google Buzz Is Still Dead, Your Data Will Be Moved To Drive, And They Thank You For Using It
If Google Buzz Is A Black Hole For Sharing Traffic, Google+ Is The Big Bang
Inside Parlio: Egyptian Activist Wael Ghonim’s New Platform For Social Change
Inbox By Gmail Gets Smarter Search With Quick Answer Cards
Google Inbox Gets Sharable Trip Bundles, Improved Photo Attachments
Yo Dawg, I Heard You Like Yahoo Mail So We Put Gmail In Your Yahoo Mail
Forget Self-Destructing Messages, Buzz’s New App Offers Self-Destructing Connections
Why the hell does Google Buzz think I am Chris Messina?
Google Buzz Privacy Issues Have Real Life Implications
Merging something designed for public broadcasting (Buzz) with something inherently private (Gmail) was just looking for trouble.
Google is -deservedly – getting a lot of heat for the fact that its latest social product has a number of privacy flaws baked into it by design.
They’ve since made some improvements to the product, but that’s not where the story ends.
Some people think the complaints are unwarranted and the issues not all that bad, while some think it’s mostly annoying and others don’t even know there are issues yet (or that Google launched something new at all). And then there those whose lives are already being impacted by the privacy loopholes in Google Buzz – and not all in a good way.
See for example this story of an anonymous woman who writes a (self-proclaimed) feminist blog, which she started after leaving an abusive marriage. (found on Hacker News)
I use my private Gmail account to email my boyfriend and my mother.
There’s a BIG drop-off between them and my other “most frequent” contacts.
Which is why it’s SO EXCITING, Google, that you AUTOMATICALLY allowed all my most frequent contacts access to my Reader, including all the comments I’ve made on Reader items, usually shared with my boyfriend, who I had NO REASON to hide my current location or workplace from, and never did.
You can read the rest of the story in the blog post, but needless to say this woman is justifiably very angry with the Mountain View company.
Now, I’m sure some of our readers will have an answer ready. That she should have changed this setting or not have touched that one, but that would be beside the point. Which is that even with the improvements that were made to the Buzz product, Google is confusing the hell out of people here – and make some lives hell for them to boot.
(Hat tip to Alex Kaminski, photo credit Flickr / sunside)
Google is a multinational corporation that is specialized in internet-related services and products. The company’s product portfolio includes Google Search, which provides  users with access to information online; Knowledge Graph that allows to search for things, people, or places as well as builds systems recognizing speech and understanding natural language; Google Now, which provides information …
Search, 																													Email, 																													Blogging Platforms, 																													Information Technology, 																													Video Streaming, 																													Software
Google Buzz is a social network and sharing product built by Google. Based within Google Profiles, Buzz offers a stream of status updates,
Apple Reportedly Creating Long-Range Wireless Charging Tech | Crunch Report
China Just Released True Color HD Photos Of The Moon
President Obama Wants $4 Billion To Bring Computer Science Education To Every K-12 School
Onfleet Has Powered Over 1 Million On-Demand Deliveries
How The Growth Of Mixed Reality Will Change Communication, Collaboration And The Future Of The Workplace
Telegraph Academy Bootcamp Teaches People Of Color How To Code
China Just Released True Color HD Photos Of The Moon
Subscribe to <span class="no-mobile">Subscribe to </span>TechCrunch Daily
China Just Released True Color HD Photos Of The Moon
How The Growth Of Mixed Reality Will Change Communication, Collaboration And The Future Of The Workplace
Onfleet Has Powered Over 1 Million On-Demand Deliveries
Tesla Says CEO Elon Musk Just Bought More of The Company
