
The producer Jeffrey Seller struck gold with Lin-Manuel Mirandas Broadway hit about the founding fathers. Now he has a new challenge  managing a runaway success.
As the lead producer of the hit musical Hamilton, Jeffrey Seller straddles a divide between art and commerce. In his appearance and manner, he takes pains not to come across as a suit, the money guy in a bohemian world of waiters and food runners who have scraped, sweated and auditioned their way onto Broadway. Trim and fit from a regimen of swimming and yoga, he naturally folds himself into his surprisingly small Midtown office, which has room for a desk, a couch and not much else. Most days, Seller shows up in jeans (or shorts in warmer weather) and an untucked button-down shirt with a bicycle helmet clipped to his backpack. I told him once that its nice he doesnt have to care too much about how he dresses for work. Oh, believe me, he said, I do care. At the musicals opening night on Broadway and the over-the-top party that followed (live music by the Roots, fireworks over the Hudson River), he wore a whimsical black suit from the Band of Outsiders label; the white stripes on the jacket lapels made him look a little like a bellhop.Hamilton is really two phenomena: an extraordinary piece of theater, created by the composer, rapper and actor Lin-Manuel Miranda, and a commercial behemoth powered in part by scarcity  the near impossibility of obtaining tickets, which sell out as quickly as new dates go on sale (through January 2017, for now). Seller helped nurture Miranda through the five years it took him to develop the musical and consulted on every important decision, from casting to a major change in the shows structure to the changing of its name, which took gentle but persistent prodding before Miranda finally agreed. (He had wanted The Hamilton Mixtape.)When I talked to Miranda backstage at the Richard Rodgers Theater before a performance one evening, he described Seller as someone who knows very well what he wants but understands that he cannot demand it. He is incredibly smart creatively, but hes never prescriptive, he told me. Jeffrey doesnt pitch scenes. He doesnt say, Heres where you need a moment for Madison to turn to Washington and say the following line. What he will say is, What youre doing now isnt working, and its on you to fix it. If there are commercial interests involved, hes very good at couching them creatively.Broadway can be a very poor investment, but when shows hit, they really hit. The most successful of them dwarf the revenues of even the biggest Hollywood blockbusters. Hamilton could easily run on Broadway for a decade or more. In September, the first road production will open in Chicago, and it will be a sit down show, meaning it is intended to stay there for a year or more. Ultimately, there may be as many as seven Hamilton companies, in addition to the one on Broadway, performing at the same time in multiple American and international cities. Ticket revenues, over time, could reach into the billions of dollars. If it hits sales of a mere $1 billion, which Hamilton could surpass in New York alone, the show will have generated roughly $300 million in profit on the $12.5 million put up by investors. (There are many eye-popping numbers to contemplate, but maybe the most striking one is this: The show is averaging more than $500,000 in profit every week.) Continue reading the main story
Seller, who is 51, has been a force on Broadway for much of his adult life. He was still in his mid-20s and working as a booker of out-of-town shows when he attended a workshop of a musical by Jonathan Larson at a small performance space uptown, then wrote him a letter in which he described himself as someone who also wanted to do great things in the theater, but from the producing and directing side. Larsons rock opera Rent would open six years later at Broadways Nederlander Theater, where it played for the next dozen years, produced by Seller and his business partner at the time, Kevin McCollum. The hip-hop-infused Hamilton is the heir to Rent  another transformational show, the next revolution in what a musical can sound like  but Seller believes that its New York run will be longer. With Rent, very early on, we lost the older audience, he says. They did not know how that boy banging on the drum in the opening number became a drag queen 10 minutes later in a Santa suit. They didnt understand it, and they didnt like it.
Sign Up for the Magazine Newsletter Get the best of the Magazine delivered to your inbox every week, including exclusive feature stories, photography, columns and more.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for 's products and services.
I talked with Seller over the course of many months, beginning last spring as Hamilton was ending its Off Broadway run at the Public Theater, where it played to packed, celebrity-filled houses every night and earned its first wave of dazzling reviews. His previous show on Broadway, The Last Ship, with music by Sting, had recently closed after less than five months, and he was devastated by its commercial failure. I dont know, and I dont think anyone does, he said when I asked how he knows what will connect with audiences. Look at Spider-Man, he continued, referring to the bloated, special-effects-heavy show that cost its investors tens of millions of dollars. It was a cynical show, an attempt to make money rather than art, and yet it did not succeed. What it proved is that there is no moneymaking formula on Broadway.Sellers job now is to run the business of Hamilton, to maximize revenues and profits, keep investors happy, pay the cast fairly, take the show worldwide, price tickets at some sane level even as the secondary market for seats has gone insane  and to do all this without the whole magical enterprise losing its soul.
Theres a refrain in Hamilton that runs through several numbers, In New York, you can be a new man, and its hard not to think of Seller whenever I hear it. Its a great, schmaltzy line  a celebration of youth and the possibility of reinvention and, not least, New York. But a subtext of the show is that no one really ever becomes a fully new man. Remnants of childhood, family and home remain; they drive you forward and trip you up. Seller is deeply connected to his young self, to the boy in suburban Detroit who watched a Tony Awards broadcast of Patti LuPone and Mandy Patinkin performing A New Argentina from Evita, felt his ears perk, then went to the library the next day to listen to the cast album and listened again and again until he knew every word. Sellers production company is called Adventureland, for the title of a play he wrote in the fourth grade. He still likes eating at Joe Allen, the theater-district standby on 46th Street, on special occasions (like the night of the first preview performance of Hamilton) because its where an older cousin took him to dinner the first time he visited New York. He is the rare person who has managed to wrest success from a glimmer of possibility he saw and could barely articulate  by marrying his desperate need for the theater, for its transporting, fantastical qualities, to his desperate need to have money, or at least enough of it to never feel lousy about it again.The night before Hamilton opened on Broadway, Seller hosted a party at the Upper West Side apartment that he shares with his partner of 19 years, Josh Lehrer, a photographer, and their 13-year-old daughter and 12-year-old son. The guests were close friends and family. Seller padded around in bare feet, pouring drinks. Is this stuff any good? he said as he popped the cork on a bottle of Champagne. I dont have any idea. I think somebody gave it to me.The first time I asked Seller about his upbringing and what his parents did, he began by saying, This is where it gets icky. We were sitting on a bench in Bryant Park on a warm afternoon; he had some tea that he bought from a kiosk. He is a middle child, an adoptee between biological siblings. When he came into the house as a newborn, his family lived in the best neighborhood in Oak Park, Mich., known as the Manor. His father owned an industrial-tool business, which he had inherited from his father and would soon bankrupt. When Seller was 4, his father went out on his motorcycle one Sunday night  he was in a motorcycle gang, or a club, Im not sure exactly, but guys who rode together  and got in an accident that left him cognitively impaired, with a form of dementia that affected his short-term memory. His mother began working at McDonalds to keep the family afloat. His father ultimately got a job serving papers for lawyers around Detroit. So, through my childhood, Seller said, my father was a process server.
Jeffrey Seller (foreground) with cast members last June during the first day of rehearsals for the Broadway production of Hamilton.
The family moved to a lesser neighborhood, and then to a section of cheaply constructed houses known as Cardboard Village. Over the course of a decade, he said, we went from the nice house to the medium house to the [expletive] house, and at the same time, all my relatives were rich and getting richer and making me feel worse. I had the strange experience of being a Jewish kid in which my family kept dropping in socioeconomic status and not rising, and it was painful and humiliating. And deeply angering. And incredibly motivating.A lot of people can recall desperately wanting to get the hell out of wherever they came from, but Sellers recollections retain a palpable energy. He was a loser, he said when I asked why he felt humiliated by his father, who died in 2014. He wasnt providing. I guessed that his father might have also been the type to react badly to having a gay son; instead, this evoked a tender memory. My anger and resentment at my father for all his failures was combustible, he said. But when I did tell him I was gay, days before moving to New York, this man who had a towering, tempestuous rage that could easily be unlocked said to me, It seems no different than if youre a righty or a lefty. He was smart in spite of it all. He was fiercely, fiercely proud of me.But I was ashamed of him. I was so angry for so long, and I grew to hate my house. I remember thinking, How am I going to get out of here? How am I going to get from 22020 Eastwood Street to here, to New York? What life am I going to have for myself? I dont know how to attain any of it.The Jonathan Larson musical that Seller saw workshopped that night a quarter-century ago was Boho Days, which was later produced as Tick, Tick ... Boom! You know what that letter is saying? he asks, referring to the note he sent Larson, who died the day before the first Off Broadway performance of Rent. I feel something here. My feelings that night were torrential, and thats where it starts for me. I have to work with material that is making the hair on my arms stand up.Seller and McCollum would produce eight Broadway shows together, including Rent and Avenue Q. Almost all of them, Seller points out, were about young people asking themselves: Who am I? What am I going to do with my life? What is my purpose? Even Avenue Q was that, but it was done, brilliantly, with puppets.
It was McCollum who first came upon Miranda  in 2004 at an early reading of his debut Broadway show, In the Heights. He called Seller that night, told him he was feeling an energy in the room and suggested he hurry over, but Seller was already out scouting something else. Seller and McCollum jointly produced In the Heights with a third partner, Jill Furman (who is now also a producer of Hamilton). In 2012, when Seller and McCollum announced that they were ending their partnership of nearly two decades, it put Miranda and his closest artistic collaborator, the director Thomas Kail, in a delicate spot. It was a situation we didnt ask to be in, Miranda told me. They had to make a choice to go with one parent or the other, in a sense, and they chose Seller.
Seller and McCollum put a good public face on their split  they said it was mutual and held out the possibility of producing together again  but it is not hard to see it as a painful professional divorce. McCollum, three years older, was the quicker of the two to commit to new material, and Seller was the cautious one. Their different styles occasionally caused friction. (McCollum brought two new shows to Broadway this season, Something Rotten and Hand to God.) Their family backgrounds are not dissimilar, or as McCollum told me, each of their upbringings had Dickensian aspects. Jeffrey is like my brother, he says. Were getting to be two old Jews. Well still share the park bench occasionally and catch up.McCollum says he did not initially comprehend that the split meant that just one of them would produce Hamilton, figuring that because Miranda was already part of our world, they would do it together. At that point, the show was almost three years from its Off Broadway opening, and Miranda was still writing. No one could have predicted the magnitude of its success. McCollum is an investor in Hamilton, and he and Seller remain co-owners of several theater-related enterprises. Im not here to analyze Jeffrey, McCollum says, but his definition of self is very important. He had to invent himself completely. He was at a place in his life where he needed to do this alone, and maybe I didnt quite understand how powerful that was for him.Seller told me that when a Broadway show is flopping, a producer reaches a point where theres not much he can do. People think you must be very busy trying to save it, but sometimes all you can do is watch it happen. Its awful. A runaway hit like Hamilton poses different challenges, like how to advertise it without further agitating people who would like a ticket but have no reasonable expectation of getting one any time soon.Last summer, I attended a meeting of the shows marketing team. Seller sat at the head of a table in a conference room at SpotCo, an entertainment advertising agency, surrounded by people who ordinarily would have been trying to introduce the new musical to the world and set it up for a respectable-enough run to pay off its investors. Drew Hodges, the agencys founder and a friend of Seller dating to their days of working together on Rent, said that because lots of people already knew tickets were virtually unobtainable, we should own our unavailability. An inventive phrase, but how it translated into strategy wasnt clear. Someone else brought up the idea of running an ad during the Super Bowl. Seller replied, genially enough, that he thought that would be a complete waste of money, considering all the free publicity the show was attracting.
Lin-Manuel Miranda (left) as Alexander Hamilton and Leslie Odom Jr. as Aaron Burr.
Hamilton hits a sweet spot you would not have imagined existed, somehow managing to be hip, sentimental, irreverent and deeply patriotic all at the same time. Sellers strategic decisions have been intended to keep it in the mainstream. The cast album, improbably, reached No. 1 on Billboards chart of rap albums in the fall, but nowhere in the shows marketing will you see it described as a hip-hop or rap musical. Thats a lesson he learned from In the Heights, which won the 2008 Tony for best musical and ran on Broadway for three years. It was profitable, but Seller thinks it could have lasted longer. We were saddled in some ways with perceptual difficulties with rap music and racism, he says. It became known as the hip-hop musical, and that unfortunately limited the audience. It deserved to run longer, and I believe it would have if not for that issue.The continuing buzz over Hamilton has allowed Seller to publicize it on his own highly favorable terms. The show didnt take part in the Macys Thanksgiving Day Parade, for example. But the cast did perform the musicals opening number, live from the Richard Rodgers Theater, for the CBS telecast of the Grammy Awards on a Monday night in February. It was basically a free four-minute commercial in front of some 25 million viewers. The Grammy producers had wanted the cast to appear at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, but Seller told them he would participate only if we can use our theater, our stage and our lighting, so America can see what Hamilton really looks like. Later that night, to no ones surprise, Hamilton won the Grammy for best musical-theater album  which prompted another live shot from the Richard Rodgers, with Miranda, surrounded by the still-costumed cast, rapping out his acceptance speech.No one involved in Hamilton wants it to be regarded as just another stop on the tourist trail, a safe piece of entertainment that runs forever. But when Seller talks about the marketing plan, his references are as all-American as can be. We dont want this to be a show that lasts for four years and everybody says, That was nice. We want people who come to New York to say: I want to see the Statue of Liberty, go to the top of the Empire State Building, walk in Central Park. And I want to see Hamilton.
In January, Seller bought a takeover of Penn Station  the buildings walls and even stairways were blanketed with the black-and-gold logo for the show. It was pure iconography. Nothing about dates, how to get tickets or the names of the lead actors. Just the logo and the words Hamilton An American Musical. Almost no one, of course, could buy the product. Seller was paying to advertise an aspiration.One day early this year, I walked over to the Richard Rodgers with Seller and a casting director, Bernard Telsey, because they wanted to see the second act of a Wednesday matinee  in particular the performance of Sydney James Harcourt, the understudy to Leslie Odom Jr. in the role of Aaron Burr. They were considering Harcourt for the part of Burr in Chicago or elsewhere. Seller stood in the back of the house at the railing behind the last row of orchestra seats. He didnt move. He barely seemed to breathe. I was reminded of what Thomas Kail, the shows director, told me about Sellers manner at rehearsals. He said it was like the intense focus of a 12-year-old building with Legos. Theres a purity of the moment, Kail said. Jeffrey is very still and unencumbered by anything other than what he is observing.
Seller is spending a great deal of his time on the formidable task of putting multiple productions on the road, each of which, he says, must replicate the quality of the Broadway production. After Chicago, a second road company will open in San Francisco and perform for five months, then move on to Los Angeles. (That same cast may end up back in San Francisco for a longer engagement if the demand warrants.) There will most likely be a company that begins its tour in another West Coast city. Seller is working with the British producer Cameron Mackintosh on a Hamilton production to open in London in 2017, which will be followed by companies in Continental Europe and Australia. For Hamilton, which does not have special effects or even an elaborate set, casting is everything. Seller will work with Telsey, Kail and Miranda to choose actors for the 10 lead parts in the road shows, as well as their understudies, almost all of whom are likely to go to actors of color, just as they do on Broadway. (After a recent casting call seeking nonwhite men and women was criticized as discriminatory by Actors Equity, Seller said he would change the wording of the announcement.)Seller is also working out the many business aspects of those productions, down to a granular level. At what row of the orchestra seats in the Chicago theater does the overhang from the balcony end? He cant sell premium orchestra seats under it. What has been the pricing for Book of Mormon tickets in Chicago? Should there be a performance on the night of the presidential election? (Yes, he decided, people can find out the result when they get home.)At the same time, he is dealing with some thorny issues in New York that derive, generally speaking, from the windfall of cash being generated at the Richard Rodgers. Making a new musical is indulging a dream, Seller says. Its wildly creative, invigorating, joyful, painful and sometimes deeply rewarding artistically and intellectually. Making money is not part of the process.It is, though, occasionally a consequence of the process. Seller always seems aware, on a day-to-day basis, of the advance  the revenue in the bank from ticket sales for future shows. Its how his industry keeps score. The money is kept in escrow until the performances for which the tickets were bought actually run  so the advance can rise or fall, depending on how ticket sales are going. By early February, the advance for Hamilton had grown to $82 million, the equivalent of nearly 400 sold-out shows.Profits from Hamilton are divided among stakeholders that include Seller and roughly 100 investors; the nonprofit Public Theater, where the show first appeared; and Miranda and others on the creative team. The shares are set, for the most part, by contract. Yet, Seller says: We live in a real world, and in that world, people are allowed to raise their hands and say, May I please have more? And I dont blame them. I would, too. Last fall, it was reported that members of the cast asked Seller for a share of the gross, though they are not owed that by contract. They are the ones bringing this show to life, he told me. It was a powerful argument they made; it was gut-wrenching for me, and I took it seriously. (He would not give specifics but said that he had reached an agreement and that the matter was resolved, at least for now.) Most cast members are working on 52-week contracts, which began July 13, the first day of Broadway previews, and those who intend to stay will soon be negotiating new deals.
A complicating factor is that the money being divided derives from the face value of tickets that range from $67 to $477, hardly small change but short of what the tickets are fetching on StubHub and other secondary-market sites  anywhere from $500 to $2,000 or more. The money from these secondary-market sales goes to brokers, many of whom get their hands on tickets by using computer programs, or bots, to scoop up huge volumes of seats each time a new batch becomes available. The demand is heightened by a distinct lack of supply. Broadway theaters, in general, are small, much smaller than some of the bigger houses in other American cities. The Richard Rodgers, midsize for Broadway, seats just over 1,300, so during the course of eight shows in a week, far fewer people see Hamilton than attend a single Knicks game. Early this year, Seller says, a single bot purchased 20,000 Hamilton tickets. Even when the brokers methods are discovered, he says, they figure out a new way to hack the system. Its frustrating, and its infuriating.
The issue goes beyond Hamilton to, essentially, the legalization of what used to be called ticket scalping. For Seller, it presents an existential question. What is the true market value for a ticket to Hamilton? The free market, albeit the one being tilted by brokers, indicates that it is far higher than what he is getting. If he sold his tickets for, say, $800, there would be a bigger pot of money to divvy up. But what would that do to the show? he says. What would it do to Broadway?The ticket price in New York is likely to go up. In a small kind of Robin Hood gesture, Seller will use some of the money to help pay for the shows educational outreach. When he first saw proposed prices for the Chicago run, he told staff members to raise them because the audience there is just as rich as the folks in New York. He worries a bit about the cost of Broadway tickets, but notes that for many shows, unsold seats are readily available from discount sites  and if people work at it, they can see a show and sit a hell of a lot closer to the stage than I ever sat in the Fisher Theater in Detroit.Over the next year, 20,000 New York City public-high-school students, all of them 11th graders at low-income schools, will see Hamilton at a series of Wednesday matinees. The initiative is backed by money from the Rockefeller Foundation, but Seller is making tickets to these shows available for about half the price he could sell them to the public. (The students themselves will pay just $10.) It will change lives, Seller says. I remember working jobs after school, doing anything I could to see a show. I know the immense power of having that seat in the theater and seeing the magic happen. I know it because I was that kid.Seller has the financial means to do what he wants, which has been the case since Rent. He and McCollum put their own money into it, and it made them wealthy. Seller has nothing planned for Broadway in the near future, but he is far from done. I make musicals, he says. Its what I do.
Lately, he has also been directing, which is what he set out to do when he first came to New York. Just a few days after all the excitement of the opening of Hamilton, he flew to Palo Alto, Calif., to direct a workshop of a musical made from Jules Feiffers young-adult novel, The Man in the Ceiling. He spent his days in a small rehearsal room, some of the time sitting on the floor cross-legged, as he instructed a group of mostly young actors circled around him. The 87-year-old Feiffer, who wrote the shows book, was also sometimes in the room, along with the composer and lyricist Andrew Lippa, Feiffers collaborator (and also Sellers first boyfriend, when they were both at the University of Michigan). It was theater at an elemental level. The cast was to do a series of three public performances with scripts in hands and no costuming, but Seller could not resist the urge to make it a little bigger.What are those things called, pith helmets? he said at one point, dispatching a stage manager to a prop closet. Can we get one of those? A little later, he sent her to find a goblet. He laughed and turned to Lippa. Pretty soon, he said, Im going to have a full production.
Michael Sokolove is a contributing writer for the magazine and the author of Drama High: The Incredible True Story of a Brilliant Teacher, a Struggling Town and the Magic of Theater.
Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of  Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page MM34 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: The C.E.O. of Hamilton Inc.

Review: Hamilton, Young Rebels Changing History and Theater
Lin-Manuel Miranda, Hamilton Creator, Freestyles for Obama
Students Will Get Tickets to Hamilton, With Its Hip-Hop-Infused History
Risk of Collapse at Jesus Tomb Unites Rival Christians
Insiders Account of How Graft Fed Brazils Political Crisis
Review: Hamilton, Young Rebels Changing History and Theater
Lin-Manuel Miranda, Hamilton Creator, Freestyles for Obama
Students Will Get Tickets to Hamilton, With Its Hip-Hop-Infused History

