For Co-Workers, Whats in a (Nick)Name - 

Fashion & Style|For Co-Workers, Whats in a (Nick)Name
I am a woman in my 20s and work in a small, friendly office of 20 people. My given name is Andie. I have a male colleague, who goes by the nickname Andy. To cut down on confusion, my colleagues started calling me Andie Girl or Miss Andie, and him Andy Boy or Mr. Andy. I hate it! Its infantilizing and condescending. But I didnt nip it in the bud, and now everyone in the company uses these nicknames, including Human Resources and our C.E.O. Is there a way to address this that doesnt seem as if Im suddenly overreacting?ANDIE, PORTLAND, ORE.I came at this all wrong, at first, by evaluating the nicknames. For every plantation-residing Miss Ellie I conjured, I could picture a feisty Georgy Girl (or better, President Obamas spot-on Hey, gurrrl, imitating a crowds affection for his wife). Then I saw the light: We should all be called what we like. Who cares that you waited, or that your male colleague comes in for similar treatment? Like Jim Croce, you got a name.Start by deciding what you want yours to be. Are you drawing the line at Andie? (It may be a tad confusing to have two, but I dont see chaos descending.) Or are you willing to incorporate your last initial: Andie J. or A. J.? Then approach Human Resources and your best pal. Say: I love my job but hate my nickname. Its so demeaning. And Im not a contestant on RuPauls Drag Race. Can you help me turn the tide and start calling me [preferred moniker]?Then divide and conquer. Let H.R. take the C.E.O. and management, and you and your pal hit your colleagues. Fortunately, 20 is a pretty small number of hearts and minds to flip. You may have to remind folks a few times. But we spend too many hours at the office to endure nicknames that grate.A Date Saved, StillMy daughter is getting married. I sent out save the date cards last month, having agonized over the guest list. I included a friend who has been close for years but whom I have not seen much of lately. Then I learned she had a casual party with friends, and we were not included. I was very hurt and no longer want to invite her to the wedding. Am I entitled to rescind my save the date?
NYT Living Newsletter Get lifestyle news from the Style, Travel and Food sections, from the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for 's products and services.
ANONYMOUS, CONN.You are not. Whats more, your invitees are not required to do light housekeeping for you or hem your trousers. They are not in your debt. You asked them to set aside a date; now, absent treacherous behavior (think: duel between Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton, not chili party diss), you will send them invitations.You, yourself, said that you have not seen much of your pal lately. Did you think she had checked into a nunnery? Put pettiness aside and return to the agonizing creation of your guest list. There was a reason your friend made the cut; it still holds.
In the Extroverts LightMy husband is outgoing. He enjoys striking up conversations with strangers and engages people whenever possible. I am quieter and often fall into the role of second banana. Im O.K. with that. But a few of our mutual friends have a habit that annoys me: They direct their comments only to my husband, rarely even glancing at me. I am not silent during these conversations. I look directly at the speaker and nod my head to show Im engaged. But to no avail. Any ideas about letting these friends know that their behavior is boorish?ANONYMOUSEnlist the aid of the extrovert in chief. Explain the problem to your husband and ask him to shine his light your way. With periodic questions as simple as, What do you think, Martha? he will remind others that you (and your opinions) are well worth listening to. Make sure to take him up on these invitations.One of the great kindnesses of extroverts, whose charisma can be the engine of conversations, is inviting those who may be more reticent into the circle of fun. Otherwise, their charm takes on a selfishness that makes interactions all about them. With luck, your husband is not all me, me, me.All the Words That FitI am in my late 50s and keep fit. When I encounter old friends, they often go on and on about how great I look. Then they make disparaging remarks about their own girth and decrepitude. I am at a loss for a response. Graciously fill the dead space for me, please.PETER, PENNSYLVANIADo people not fish for compliments in Pennsylvania, Peter? Chances are, we are looking at bilateral exaggeration here: You are not quite so hot, nor they as decrepit, as they maintain. But never mind. Say: Thanks for the kind words. Im always happy to see you, too. You continue the light banter, but elevate it by taking it out of the realm of appearance and focusing on your friendship instead. Follow up with, What have you been up to  and more important, how do you think The Good Wife will end?
For help with your awkward situation, send a question to SocialQ@nytimes.com or SocialQ on Facebook. You can also address your queries on Twitter to @SocialQPhilip. Include a daytime phone number.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows) and Instagram.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page ST10 of the New York edition with the headline: No Goofy Nicknames.

Lighthearted advice about awkward social situations.
Siblings Who Dont Play Nice After a Mothers Death

