SECURITY ANALYSIS. By Benjamin Graham and David L. Dodd. 725 pp. New York -
Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill Book Company. $5. - Review - NYTimes.com
Campaign ID: 277474 | Creative: bar1_button_inyt_usd_4L9UF -- 413757 | Page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives / Targeted Page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article | Position: Bar1
Sagacity and Securities; SECURITY ANALYSIS. By Benjamin Graham and David L. Dodd. 725 pp. New York: Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill Book Company. $5.
ON the assumption that despite the debacle of recent history there are still left people whose money burns a hole in their pockets, it is to be hoped that they will read this book. It is a full-bodied, mature, meticulous and wholly meritorious outgrowth of scholarly probing and practical sagacity.
New York Times subscribers* enjoy full access to TimesMachineview 129 years of New York Times journalism, as it originally appeared. 99 for your first
Or, purchase this article individually for $3.95 and download a high-resolution PDF.
* Does not include NYT Now or Premium Crosswords subscribers.
Already a subscriber? Log in to view this article 
Uncertain Harvest: Doubts About the Promised Bounty of Genetically Modified Crops
No Kegs, No Liquor: College Crackdown Targets Drinking and Sexual Assault
Op-Ed Columnist: 3 TVs and No Food: Growing Up Poor in America
The Culture Issue: Why Pop Culture Just Cant Deal With Black Male Sexuality
Your Money: The School of Wants and Needs  and Wood-Fired Showers
Hillary Clinton Assails James Comey, Calling Email Decision Deeply Troubling
Table for Three: Rachel Maddow and Doris Kearns Goodwin on a Presidential Race for the History Books
Emails in Anthony Weiner Inquiry Jolt Hillary Clintons Campaign
A Scandal Too Far? Huma Abedin, Hillary Clinton, and a Test of Loyalty
Emails in Anthony Weiner Inquiry Jolt Hillary Clintons Campaign
Hillary Clinton Assails James Comey, Calling Email Decision Deeply Troubling
Latest Upshot Poll Shows Trump With a Lead in Florida
This Changes Everything: Donald Trump Exults as Hillary Clintons Team Scrambles
Justice Dept. Strongly Discouraged Comey on Move in Clinton Email Case
Trumps Going to Bake an Inauguration Cake Out of This
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
