Daily Report: Pentagon Expanding Online Defenses - 
Defense officials say that the Pentagon is moving toward a major expansion of its cybersecurity force to counter increasing attacks on the nations computer networks, as well as to expand offensive computer operations on foreign adversaries, Elisabeth Bumiller reports on Monday in .
The expansion would increase the Defense Departments Cyber Command by more than 4,000 people, up from 900, an American official said. Defense officials acknowledged that a formidable challenge in the growth of the command would be finding, training and holding on to such a large number of qualified people.
The Pentagon is constantly looking to recruit, train and retain world class cyberpersonnel, a defense official said Sunday.
The threat is real, and we need to react to it, said William J. Lynn III, a former deputy defense secretary who worked on the Pentagons cybersecurity strategy.
As part of the expansion, officials said the Pentagon was planning three different forces under Cyber Command: national mission forces to protect computer systems that support the nations power grid and critical infrastructure, combat mission forces to plan and execute attacks on adversaries and cyber protection forces to secure the Pentagons computer systems.
The move, part of a push by Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta to bolster the Pentagons cyberoperations, was first reported on The Washington Posts Web site.
In October, Mr. Panetta warned in dire terms that the United States was facing the possibility of a cyber-Pearl Harbor and was increasingly vulnerable to foreign computer hackers who could dismantle the nations power grid, transportation system, financial network and government. He said that an aggressor nation or extremist group could cause a national catastrophe, and that he was reacting to increasing assertiveness and technological advances by the nations adversaries, which officials identified as China, Russia, Iran and militant groups.
Disruptions: A Fuzzy and Shifting Line Between Hacker and Criminal
Google Says Electronic Snooping by Governments Should Be More Difficult
Visit the Technology section for complete coverage of the industry. 
