
My parents wanted to change the world. Thats so lame. Ideologies are just labels. I have bigger ambitions. I want to change the planet.The way I want to change the planet is through me!If I can attain mindfulness and wellness, and others follow, we will create a sustainable planet and harmony will prevail.For many generations, people wanted to acquire stuff. They didnt really care where it came from. I want the things I buy to tell a story. I am into experience rather than possessions. For example, I want the journals I record my life experience in to be made from acid-free paper sourced from sustainably managed local forests.That way, my journals speak to me, just as my shirts made from sustainable organic cotton comfort me  and nothing I own hurts the earth or anyone on it.Conventional politics, like conventional business, is finished. Ideology is like bricks-and-mortar retail: a hangover from another age. Sharing is the new owning. Luxury is less. The remote eco-lodge is the new Ritz. Getting healthy is the new getting high. My parents dont get it. One day they will.
Everyone has a story to tell and, through smartphones, everyone has a full production studio in his or her (or some other possessive pronoun) pocket. We are the empowered generation. We can hold corporations accountable, demand transparency and the appointment of chief sustainability officers, and reject what they manufacture if its not compatible with a better, happier, smarter, more ethical planet. Thats the power of me!Occasionally, I have random thoughts that are not reflective of true mindfulness. Ive wondered if the happy chickens portrayed on the boxes of cage-free organic eggs would be that happy if they knew their eggs were inside. But in general I feel good knowing that the eggs I eat came from contented chickens on a local farm. We all know that happy pigs produce the best pork (not that I eat meat).Carnivores leave huge carbon footprints. I have nothing against them, of course. But if they thought about how much we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions to avoid climate change, disrupted ecosystems, rising ocean temperatures, and vast movements of people deprived of livelihoods, they might be a little less selfish and aggressive.Plus, if they adopted plant-based food theyd be getting a great combo deal: lowering their sky-high cholesterol and helping the planet. Livestock is responsible for a lot of greenhouse gas emissions (O.K., dairy is not so great either).Thats one of the terrific things about the politics of me. There are so many combo deals! What you wear and eat, how you travel, and what you do are your own political statements. They make you feel good about yourself at the same time as they advance world peace. What thinking person would not switch to a quinoa-based veggie burger for that cause?You are not less male for eating kale. The humble Brussels sprout is embarrassingly trendy  not seen a menu without them for a while  but still a lot better than prime rib in planetary terms.Overall, Id define myself as a small-batch, vegetarian locavore into yoga (and Instagram yoga communities), integrity, interconnectedness, mindfulness, and artisanal authenticity (but wary of calculated authenticity), dedicated to reimagining the planet for the post-fossil-fuel era.To which you might say, Thats a mouthful and who the heck cares?Thats what my Dad says, by the way, but hes way behind the curve these days. Got 20th-century written all over him.
Its past time to celebrate the politics of me. The selfie is the political and cultural portrait of our time. The great failing of all past attempts to change societies is that they did not start from changing self. In fact they were often a diversion from that core responsibility.I care about the planet, and Im me, and Im proud to be me. The age of hierarchies and bullies is over. Anyone with a smartphone can build an audience. Not that you will find me in the smartphone prayer position for hours on end. I am mindful enough to know that getting offline from time to time is important for getting in sync with my inner self.I hesitated to say this but Im also into gluten-free. I know a lot of people are these days  there is talk of an epidemic  but so what? I just feel better eating gluten-free, so I encourage others to try it, and some of them get irritated, but thats their problem, not mine.
Once theyve raised their consciousness and attained greater mindfulness, my guess is theyll come over to the gluten-free side. Just because gluten has been around in wheat for about 12,000 years doesnt mean its good.Im also lactose intolerant, but thats another story.The revolution is underway. Politics has come home to the body. I change the planet, therefore I am.
You can follow me on Twitter or join me on Facebook.
Follow  Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.


