campaign: inyt2016_bar1_digi_oct_6F8YR -- 284627, creative: 1_inyt2016_bar1_digi_oct_6F8YR_launch -- 415060,
page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Bar1
THERE are still a few red marks on my posterior left from a chance encounter with some flying particles of rock salt in my youth. These were added to my collection of childhood scars as a couple of fellow mischief makers and I were busy scaling the exterior of some four- and five-story factory buildings. Our objective was the flat, skylit roof of a bread factory, from which one could watch neatly wrapped baked goods trundling along a line of moving belts toward the waiting packing boxes.
Having ventured into this territory before, we had come bearing fishing lines ending in treble hooks and lead weights. With a little skill, it was posssible to lower one's line and snag a loaf of raisin bread as it passed below. This particular day, however, the guard was onto us and our levitating bread trick. As we were looking down, he was coming up, a rock-salt-loaded shotgun in hand.
Today, both the indiscretions of youth and their results can have far greater consequences. Instead of levitating bread, it is possible to levitate multimillion-dollar satellites into new orbits. Instead of arduously scaling buildings, one can enter offices unseen through the telephone lines, leaving neither a target nor any sign of entry. Instead of involving something as tangible as a 19-cent loaf of bread, the theft is more apt to relate to information - information that may have no value whatsoever to its illegal acquirers but be worth millions of dollars to someone else.
Though widely reported, the crimes of computer hackers and disgruntled employees still arouse far too little concern in corporations. The lingering reluctance of many businesses to face the problem has a threefold cause: The ''It can't happen to me'' syndrome; a commendable, if too narrow, ''I trust my employees'' attitude and, probably most important of the three, a simple lack of up-to-date information on the subject.
The last of these considerations is addressed by the Datapro Reports on Information Security ($395 a year from the publisher, the Datapro Research Corporation, Delran, N.J., 08075, (800) 257-9406). The new subscriber receives two loose-leaf binders containing more than 1,000 pages of information covering such categories as risk analysis, microcomputer security, physical security, electronic data processing audits and disaster avoidance. The initial background material is followed by monthly updates.
The reports are broad and far-reaching, perhaps unnecessarily so for the personal computer marketplace alone. Most owners of an I.B.M. PC, for instance, probably have little interest in schematized drawings of the American Transtech Data Security Services' bonded media vault housed 50 feet underground. Then again, many business executives may never have given any thought to utilizing an outside vendor's vault.
In fact, every company should consider such a vault as a repository, at least for its most crucial backup data. Datapro's service provides a plethora of ideas on data security, gathered together in one package, which, because of the monthly supplements, should allow the service to be more up-to-date than any book on the subject could hope to be.
Some of the security suggestions are, at one and the same time, very simple and very effective. Consider, for example, the procedure of logging on, the process by which someone gains access to the computer, either through the keyboard, or through the telephone lines. User-created passwords stipulated as prerequisites for logging on to secured systems are usually a joke from the standpoint of data protection.
Most people choose either an easily remembered name, such as that of their pet, or a reasonably obvious set of numbers such as that of their license plate. Assigned code names, more difficult to recall, are often taped to the console, or, if the user is more crafty, to the underside of the keyboard. This is minimal security at best. At worst it is a blatant mistake, but one that any manager should be able to observe and correct. LESS obvious to the eye are the changes that really ought to be made in most log-on procedures themselves. One common sequence of action consists of entering first an account number and then a password. The manner in which a program responds to errors in such a sequence can make a huge difference in how easily the system can be cracked. A system that responds with the statement ''Incorrect account number'' or ''Incorrect password'' is far less secure than one that responds with the simple comment ''Incorrect entry.''
As pointed out in the Datapro Reports, ''Suppose there is one correct account number for each 10,000 incorrect account numbers and one correct password for each 10,000 incorrect passwords. The average number of attempts to find a correct account number or password is 5,000. If the enemy is told whether an account number is correct followed by being told whether a password is correct, an average number of 5,000 guesses must be made to find a valid account number, followed by using the valid account number and password guesses an average of 5,000 times, making a total of 10,000 log-on attempts on the average.
''However, if the enemy receives no indication of a correct or incorrect log-on until both the account number and the password are valid, an average of all combinations of account numbers and passwords must be attempted. That is, for each system compromise an average of (5,000 X 10,000) - 5,000 - 49,995,000 log-ons are necessary.'' Such odds will not stop truly devoted hackers and their computers from attempting to log on to a system they are bent on entering, but it will certainly make matters a lot more difficult.
Most of the material from the Datapro Reports, though somewhat convoluted in style, is eye-opening, as regards both the degree to which most computer data is left to be preyed on by hackers, and the simplicity with which better security may be put into effect.
Some of the writing is badly in need of editing, as in the case of the reprints from the Air Force Data Systems Design Center. What business executive paying $395 for a service needs his or her time wasted with such insights as ''While small computers in the home may be programmed for simple applications by most anyone, few Air Force applications are that simple.'' But, on the whole, the Datapro Reports on Information Security are the next best thing to knowing a hacker.
My own thought on safeguarding computer data is that the best security move a company could make would be to hire a good hacker and pay him to vent his youthful indiscretions on the in-house system - while carefully keeping track of all its weaknesses.
Datapro has taken the same tack to some extent by hiring 28-year-old Ian Murphy, a.k.a. Captain Zap, as a contributing editor. Arrested in 1981 and later convicted on felony charges, Captain Zap, a self-proclaimed ''penetration and countersurveillance expert,'' could not make an honest living in the computer security industry until after he was convicted of stealing close to half a million dollars' worth of computer products.
Other, more conventionally educated contributing editors serving on the Datapro staff include computer abuse specialist Donn P. Parker, Jay J. BloomBecker, director of the National Center for Computer Crime Data, and various additional specialists conversant with file encryption, E.D.P. auditing and risk analysis. All in all, the Datapro study packs in a lot of rock salt with which to load the shotguns of corporate data defenses.
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
