A Midas of Meat at BK Jani in Bushwick - 

Here comes rack of lamb, fat chops in a ring with the bones jutting off the plate like sun rays. It is luxury, this great wheel of shining meat, crazed with its own juices and tasting of smoke made flesh.Never mind that its served on a paper plate, without a knife or fork. Remember your animal self and what those long bones are for.Get the lamb chops! is the command on a taped-up sign at BK Jani, a small Pakistani barbecue spot that opened in October in Bushwick, Brooklyn. It is one of some three dozen exhortations lining the walls, handwritten by customers. When they started praising the food, Sibte Hassan, the chef and owner, asked, Would you like to put that on record?Now the compliments serve as advice to those waiting to order at the counter, although in truth you could throw a dart at the menu blindfolded and still be happy. Mr. Hassan, who identifies himself as the restaurants chief grilling officer, is a Midas of meat.
It helps that he buys his meat  Black Angus beef, New Zealand lamb and Amish chicken, all pasture-raised, hormone-free and certified halal  from Pat LaFrieda. And that he seasons, slices and shapes everything to order.BK Jani is at once a nostalgic homage to the street food of his childhood in Lahore, Pakistan, and an answer to the problem of where to find a good halal burger in New York. His is better than good, possibly one of New Yorks best, halal or no.
Follow NYT Food's board Hungry City Reviews on Pinterest.
It arrives with the juices live and running, on a sesame bun with just enough give, striped with char. At the bottom is a low fever of chutney, hyperactive green chiles doing battle with fresh, bright mint, white pepper, pomegranate seed, vinegar and lime; on top, raita suffused with cumin and more mint, and a cut of tomato gone darkly sweet on the grill.No ketchup, mustard, barbecue sauce or other invasive condiments are on hand. I didnt miss them. For the span of time in which I ate the burger, I didnt miss anything at all.Then I ate the seekh kebabs and forgot everything that came before. They were made of ground beef kneaded with onion, green chile, coriander and the 17 slow-roasted spices that go into Mr. Hassans version of garam masala. The kebabs look like tubby, elongated meatballs, inelegant and beautiful, with black slashes and creamy interiors.BK Jani stands at the southwestern corner of Maria Hernandez Park, a small oasis named after a community leader who fought to keep drug dealers off her block  and lost her life for it. The awning is printed with red gingham, like a blanket tossed on the grass. Inside are long picnic tables that Mr. Hassan built by hand and lush full-bleed murals by local artists Naoufal Alaoui (known as Rocko), N. Carlos Jay and Ryan Smith.Mr. Hassan left Lahore for New York a little over a decade ago to study at the Parsons School of Design. He has been a graphic designer, animator, photographer and filmmaker, but never before a professional cook, just a backyard one who liked to feed his friends. (Overfeed them, he said.)After the bounty of lamb, burgers and kebabs, there is more: steak, sliced thin, seared and blushing hard on an impeccably flaky paratha; and chicken tikka, ablaze with red Kashmiri chile. Perhaps inevitably, the vegetables are less memorable. Of the grilled asparagus, Mr. Hassan notes on the menu, Meh.
Because the meat takes awhile to cook, Mr. Hassan sometimes hands out free lentil soup to ease the wait. (If youre particularly appreciative, you may even be rewarded with the off-menu limeade, a bracing take on Pakistani shikanjabeen.) The soup is meant to evoke one served at a Sufi shrine in Lahore, where, Mr. Hassan said, everyone, regardless of religion, was welcome.
He holds true to that welcoming spirit here. On my first visit, when I called ahead to ask what time the restaurant closed, Mr. Hassan told me 11 p.m. But if youre running late, just give us a ring, he said. Well wait for you.
Menu singlepage.com/bk-jani-0 Recommended Dishes Lamb chops; seekh kebabs; burgers; chicken tikka. Prices $3 to $32, cash or Chase QuickPay only. Drinks and Wine No liquor license. Price $$ (moderate) Open Tuesday to Sunday for lunch and dinner.
Wheelchair Access The entrance is one step up from sidewalk. There is no public restroom.
A version of this review appears in print on April 13, 2016, on page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: One Burger, Hold the Ketchup.

Ligaya Mishan reviews New York's great unsung restaurants.
Nirvana, Nordic Style, at Grand Centrals New Food Hall
The Chinese Club Cuts a Culinary Path Through India
The Thrill of the Tabletop Grill at Tong Sam Gyup Goo Yi

