
October 12, 1975, Page 267  Archives
I have often wondered why so many college football players go into politics. Recently, I asked a friend, a very fine Ivy League running back who is now a member of Congress. Once you get the sound of the crowd in your ears, he explained, you can never get it out.What gives chilling significance to this observation is the fact that the President of the United States, an AllAmerican who must have heard mighty cheers in his football days, still seems reluctant to change his practice of plunging into crowds and shaking hands, despite the fact that two attempts have been made to kill him within three weeks. With apparently thousands of disturbed persons around who feel the need to make a dramatic personal statement and a Congress unable to do anything about such persons' unrestricted access to guns, this method of politicking is obviously dangerous. And a lengthy Presidential campaign is approaching, with its long list of candidates and primary elections to be held in more than 30 states. Since foolproof screening of political crowds is not feasible without a serious erosion of constitutional liberties, a great deal of the problem of personal security in the months to come will be up to the candidates themselves. It is important then to consider why it is that our national leaders seem determined to take risks with crowds and to consider what would happen were they to their ways.Actually, the danger of assassination stalks only a handful of them  the ones who draw crowds because they are national celebrities. No meaningful statement could be made by shooting at Senator Carl Curtis of Nebraska. Nor did Gerald Ford have this kind of star quality during his first 25 years in public life. The close electricity of the masses is something quite new to his political experience. That may be part of his prcblem.Most of those who attain celebrity come up, as Ford did, through a series of local and state elections in which the handshake is the common medium of exchange, and a harmless one at that. The critical question is not how they got the habit mixing with the public, but why they are reluctant to give it up once they climb to the summit, where the danger of armed attack exists. Continue reading the main story
Some campaigners mix with crowds to create a visual event for the evening news on television, which does reach great numbers of voters. The sight of eager citizens clutching for their hands is supposed to show enthusiasm for their candidacy and lift campaign morale. But if the goal is winning votes, it is better attained under more protected circumstances. Controlled TV appearances  on paid political programs, talk shows, debates, panels, in news interviews and publicinterest presentations by the networks  can also reach huge national audiences. And to explore what the voters are thinking, cottee hours in a home or questionandanswer sessions with an indoor audience are more effective, certainly, than plunging into crowds. The basic reason for taking that risk is one few national leaders will admit. In politics, as in football, a crowd selves as psychological support to the players. When one considers the stakes involved in the Presidency, Or a Presidential campaignthe pace, the daily pressures and enormous tensionsone can understand why they need such reassurance. The American electorate is so large and swept by so many currents of opinion that politicians have no certain way, prior to Election Day, to measure either their success or their popularity. There are polls, of course, but they change from month to month and they cannot measure the intensity of public feeling. Under this much pressure and uncertainty, the chance to work a crowdto be warmed by its cheers and feel its support in the press of people's handsbecomes a form of pychic sustenance.
It is not overstating the case to say that our best public servants are hooked on adulation. Senator Hubert Humphrey, frustrated and unhappy while serving his term as Vice President, eagerly sought the opportunity to get out of Washington into the country, where he could be affirmed for his own qualities. His staff scanned local papers for stories and pictures of his warm receptions from crowds and assembled them in a scrapbook. When aides suggested the scrapbook project was taking them away from important business, he replied:When I'm working in my office at 11 o'clock at night and nothing is going right, I like to look at those pictures. They make me feel better.So patrician a figure as Adlai Stevenson admitted, even as he wrote of the indignities of Presidential campaigning, that somehow the people sustain you. He called the experience a glorious heartfilling, headfilling odyssey for which I shall be forever grateful. The late Senator Robert Kennedy, always an underdog in his grief and tragic race for the Presidency in 1968, could never have gone through his brutal, 16houraday campaign schedules without the nourishment of the receptions he received. The morning after his defeat in the Oregon primary, he flew to Los Angeles and motorcaded through downtown streets. The roaring frenzy of the crowds refreshed his spirit and morale. At one point, a woman ran alongside his car for three blocks, reaching for him and shouting, FOregon! She could as well have been carrying a pistol.Today's Presidential candidates must weigh their need for nourishment against the possibility, underlined by recent events, that somewhere in the friendliest of crowds a gun will be aimed at them. One hopes they will opt for their own safety. When they are aware of a particular risk, they do. During the riots in Washington which followed the assassination of Martin Luther King, the late President Johnson wanted to pay a surprise visit to the heart of the trouble area, with only a handful of reporters and cameramen, to talk to people on the street. He thought his appearance there would help cool tempers and reassure the populace; and that the conversations would show the nation that the overwhelming majority of black people abhorred this kind of aimless destruction. The Secret Service advised him that even with the element of surprise, they could not ensure his safety. Johnson canceled the trip.Eliminating exposure to crowds will not undermine the democratic process. It will, however, alter the ways in which candidates for the Presidency campaign. Eighteen months before Senator Edward Kennedy, a politician LA particular vulnerability in this regard, decided not to run for President, a longtime associate sent him a memo spelling out these changes. It said in part:Limiting your personal appearances to places which the Secret Service could seal off and protect absolutely would eliminate all of the following from your schedule of campaigning: airport welcomes, airport handshaking, motorcades, outdoor speeches, indoor speeches in huge auditoriums, street campaigning of any kind. It would not eliminate studio appearances on radio and television, commercial spots, speeches before audiences whose composition could be prescreened for security, televised visits to farms and factories, conversations with selected voters to be televised as news or commercials; and whatever other forums the ingenuity of your scheduling and television advisers could, with the Secret Service, devise. It does not eliminate your ability to reach all the voters with your message, your personality and your qualifications.(It was, interestingly enough, the opinion of Kennedy's chief political lieutenant, Paul Kirk, that the Massachusett Senator would have difficulty submiting to such a schedule, partly because it would be so sterile and boring and partly because he feels a personal need for the spontaneous dialogue with citizens that he says some types of handshaking produce.)If the current candidates for President eliminate risky situations from their schedules, next year's primaries will not be much affected. None of the announced candidates for the Democratic nomination has achieved the degree of fame that causes excited crowds to gather; nor can they in the few months before campaigning begins in earnest. Moreover, the temperature of campaigning in most of the primary states is no higher than that contests for the Senate or the governorship. A candidate will be able to shake the hand of every eligible voter in New Hampshire without causing a commotion. And he could not mount a motorcade or a streetrally crowd in a Florida city in February. even if he wanted to.By next April and May, primary elections will be corning so thick and fast that candidates will not have time for more than brief appearances in each state. (On a single day, May 4, for example, five primarieswill be heldin Illinois, Indiana, North Carolina, Alabama and the District of Columbia.) One or two of the candidates will probably do well enough, in the early and middle primaries, to pull away from the field. National attention, with its attendant risks, will come to them by virtue of the possibility that one of them may well be the next President. The level of excitement and the tendency of crowds to gather will intensify toward the end of the primary season in June, especially if the race is narrowed to couple of contestants. But the vital late primaries will be held in mediaoriented states, such as Ohio and California, where candidates, if they wish, can make an impact without personal physical exposure. The events that changed the most votes in the last Democratic primary in California  the debates between Humphrey and Senator George McGovernwere held in a bare television studio, closed to the public.To dispense with crowds for reasons of safety would have greater consequences during the incumbency of a President than during his campaign. Ford is concerned that, if a President cannot mingle, the Government will grow even more distant from the people than it is now. But public contact with a President does nothing about the bigness of Government, its inability to respond to human needs or the divisions within the nation that render our leadership immobilized on critical issues ranging from energy to race relations. It is extremely doubtful that a citizen who feels helpless in the face of big Government will change his mind because he has shaken the President's hand. Conversely, the people do not have to press their President's flesh to feel a bond with him. Television offers a far deeper insight into his policies and character than a passing handshake or a glimpse through the bubbletop limousine.
Nevertheless, the President does need contact with the people. President Truman once described the White House as a big white jail, and its isolation has increased as the power of the office has grown. A President need not be solitary by nature, as Richard Nixon was, to find himself cut off from meaningful personal contact. His aides protect him; the Secret Service seeks to restrict his movements the realities of the world are filtered to him in the form of memos and briefings and newspapers. There is a real need for a President to have direct access the nation as it is, to sense its pulse and feeling, by traveling the country and talking with ordinary citizens. Every President granted such a furlough returns to the big white jail invigorated. It should, however, be possible to provide this regular contact without the risks associated with crowds in the street. He could, for example, set aside an evening each month to take calls from citizens on the telephone. Closedcircuit TV connections would make possible for them to see each other as they chat. He could follow the model of French President Giscard d'Estaing and have dinner with them in their homes or invite them to his. The guest lists at White House dinners have too long been confined to the rich and the powerful.Public men of great visibility are often fatalistic. They are understandably reluctant to shape their activities. If I did that, Robert Kennedy used to say. I couldn't function. I'd be a vegetable. But neither this attitude, nor Mr. Ford's mix of machismo and patriotism (I will not cower in the face of a limited number of people who don't represent this fine country) is an acceptable posture in view of the last 12 years of this nation's history. National figures must recognize their vulnerability and act accordingly, using the same degree of caution to protect themselves that they would demand in the of their wives and children.For politicians there is no substitute for the lift that comes from mass adulation, except perhaps a psychedelic trip. Yet, until the country settles down they must learn to bear the pressures of their trade without it. If they refuse, this should be something voters should take into account passing upon their candidacy. If the voters in the primaries, for example, do express their disapproval of campaign events that pose unnecessary peril, the politicians will cancel such events soon enough. And they will have to find other ways to assure themselves that they are loved.There is something not quite right about a person, however admirable otherwise, who seems eager take grave personal risks in pursuit of an office in which continuity and stability are so vital. Presidents and potential Presidents have an obligation to the people they wish to leadan obligation not to risk dangers they know may be stalking them merely to hear the roar of the crowd. 
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on October 12, 1975, on page 267 of the New York edition with the headline: THE SAVING OF.

