Should a Nephew Be Told Who His Real Father Is? - 

Magazine|Should a Nephew Be Told Who His Real Father Is?
My sister has told me that her son is not the biological son of her husband. His sperm count was very low; she was having an affair and became pregnant. The son looks not like his father but like the other man. Her son (he is now middle-aged) doesnt know, and her husband (theyre now divorced) doesnt, either. Recently, when my sister had a health crisis, she told the other man for the first time, asking him not to tell anyone. He told her that was his decision. He has no other children. Now he knows he has a son and a grandchild.Heres my dilemma. I promised I would tell no one, and I have kept my promise. But I am haunted by the knowledge that her son does not know who his real father is. I am a father with a son and would want, under any circumstances, to know who my father was. What is your counsel? Name WithheldYoure right to give serious weight to the thought that if you were in your nephews situation, you would want to know. Its a compelling consideration. We all have a  perhaps irrational  concern to know our biological parentage. In the age of genomics, we may even have a medical rationale for wanting to know. And for a variety of reasons, its morally important to learn the truth about matters you care about.But do such considerations trump your obligation to keep your sisters confidence? If you tell, after all, its your sister who will have to explain to her son why she has kept this fact from him and face his likely reproaches (spoken or not) for her infidelity to the man your nephew always thought of as his father. Theres also a serious chance her ex-husband will find out, which could lead to more distress, not least because it may disrupt his relationship with the man he raised as his son. And consequences aside, theres the simple, forceful fact that you gave your word. Continue reading the main story
The best outcome, I suspect, is one in which you persuade your sister to tell her son herself. Aim for that. She surely knows her son better than you do and will have views about how the revelation would affect him; shell also have views about how to manage their relationship afterward. And if she still refuses to tell your nephew? Listen to her side of things before you decide whether its your place to be the bearer of this news.I am an avid art collector of mostly regional or less-publicized artists. I try to buy directly from artists, as they then receive 100 percent of the price as opposed to 80 percent, or even 50 percent, if I buy through a gallery. Recently I found a piece online by an artist I love. It is one of his finest works. I was able to buy it for far, far less than what the artists work sells for these days. My mind tells me there is nothing wrong with this, but Ive been feeling uneasy ever since. I also happen to know the artist, but we are not personal friends. What do you think? Name WithheldAssuming that the seller wasnt the artist or his gallery, surely none of the proceeds were going to the artist. Paying more wouldnt have helped him. The only way you might have hurt him is if the sale was recorded, because the prices of an artists work can be affected by sales averages. But one online sale isnt likely to matter.
So the sole party who might have a moral claim against you is the seller  and the seller picked the price, not you. The lesson of all those stories about Rembrandts found at garage sales is that buyers have no obligation to inform sellers that they could charge more. The obligations run in the other direction. Sellers are supposed to inform buyers if a good has a known defect that affects its value, unless they are explicitly selling as is. No inverse convention requires buyers to inform sellers of unknown advantages.Theres a good reason for this. The person possessing the object is better positioned than the buyer to explore its properties before offering it for sale (economists call this information asymmetry), and its in his or her interest to do so. In the age of Google, whats more, there are lots of price databases online. So you can stop worrying about your purchases ethics and just enjoy its aesthetics.The school district where I live just settled a teachers contract retroactively. Teachers lost significant benefits and are disheartened as they brace themselves for negotiations for the coming year. Instead of spending hours finessing college letters of recommendation, I have suggested that we teachers use a form letter noting that Johnny passed the class and is eligible to apply to the college in question. Period. Most teachers find cursory treatment of letters distasteful, but this is one way for teachers to make clear how much time they devote to their jobs outside the workday. Is it unethical to pursue this tactic when facing contract negotiations that do not account for the unpaid hours teachers devote to their profession? Students are not denied letters, but they would not be letters painstakingly crafted by professionals. Name WithheldIts an awful thing when school districts undermine the professional confidence and self-respect of teachers. Public education is a major responsibility of our communities; we need dedicated teachers and working conditions that sustain them. Still, if writing carefully composed college admissions letters is part of the job, not doing so is an undeclared work stoppage that penalizes students, who are not to blame for the failures of the school board. Many teachers, precisely because they are dedicated professionals, would have a hard time bringing themselves to do it. They know that kids who lose scholarships or admittances as a consequence may have no chance of a do-over. But thats the trouble with the poor state of relations between management and employees in schools: The main victims are our children.I am a vascular surgeon. One of the diseases I treat is aortic aneurysms. Recently, a patient presented in extremis to the emergency room with a rupture of his aneurysm. He told me that he had known about the aneurysm and had declined elective repair in the past. I was frank about the risks of surgery and the likelihood of a poor outcome. I was also truthful when I told him that without surgery he would definitely die soon but comfortably, and that the only, albeit slim, chance of surviving this event would be going immediately to the operating room. His family was hours from our hospital. He decided to proceed with surgery and indeed died from complications.My question: Is it ethical to refuse to operate on a patient like this, knowing that he had declined surgery in the past? It would save a lot of resources and heartache (at least for me, the surgeon). I believe that in the heat of the moment (i.e., facing death), patients panic and want everything done. Name WithheldCertainly not. Even if his earlier doctors clear recommendation was for surgery, declining elective repair was still the patients choice to make. So was pursuing the emergency, low-odds surgery with you. Medical treatment is not the prerogative of people who make good choices.You suggest three reasons for refusing him surgery. First, because he made the wrong decision earlier. Second: It was a waste of resources. Third: His death was painful for you. The first and third reasons sit badly with me. Its not your job to judge the earlier decisions of your patients  you dont withhold surgery from an accident victim who neglected to wear a seatbelt  and as a surgeon, youre obliged to do the best you can for your patients, even if it discomforts you.
I have some sympathy, though, with the second reason. The costs of treating people are borne by all of us, through taxes and insurance premiums. We cannot spend all our resources on medicine. So we have to make decisions about what we will and wont do. Difficult and expensive surgery with a very low probability of prolonging life is the sort of thing that we can reasonably decide we wont do. That tenet wouldnt normally apply to surgery for ruptured aortic aneurysms, which I gather has a mortality rate of about 50 percent. (Not good, but not terrible.) Yet there may be procedures for which the ratio between resources and results is wildly lopsided.
Decisions like these, however, arent to be made on the fly by a single physician. We need to get clearer, institutionally, about what our criteria are for rationing long-odds surgery. And we need mechanisms for working out which interventions should and shouldnt make the cut.
Kwame Anthony Appiah teaches philosophy at N.Y.U. He is the author of Cosmopolitanism and The Honor Code: How Moral Revolutions Happen.To submit a query: Send an email to ethicist@nytimes.com; or send mail to The Ethicist,  Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. (Include a daytime phone number.)
Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of  Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page MM24 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: Should I Tell My Sisters Son Who His Real Father Is?.

Stories to help you understand the world  and make the most of it.
Im 29 and I never learned how money works. Its time to fix that.
How to write a cover letter people will actually read
Tips for handling a toxic co-worker (and how to avoid becoming one)
Want to make your own app? There are free classes for that
Five Easy Recipes to Impress Family and Friends (and Dates)

