Periods for Pence Campaign Targets Indiana Governor Over Abortion Law - 

U.S.|Periods for Pence Campaign Targets Indiana Governor Over Abortion Law
Periods for Pence Campaign Targets Indiana Governor Over Abortion Law
Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana has been the focus of an unusual campaign on Facebook and Twitter over an abortion law he signed.
One woman invited Gov. Mike Pence to her gynecologist appointment. Another provided an update on her cramps.
Another tweeted that she had just changed her tampon.The social media missives directed to Indianas governor this week have been frequent, pointed and unyielding in their descriptions of female physiology. They are part of an unusual campaign on Facebook and Twitter to express outrage at a law that Mr. Pence, a Republican, signed last month that created several new restrictions on abortions.The protesters often post with the hashtag #periodsforpence and mix anatomical details with a touch of humor.
@GovPenceIN @periodsforpence Started my cycle today. When will you be by to check my used pads for HB1337 compliance so I know to be home?
The campaign is an attempt to shock and shake up the state capital, but it has also drawn attention from outside the state to the new abortion law  in particular a requirement that miscarried or aborted fetuses be cremated or interred.The law, which also includes a ban on abortions motivated solely by gender, race or disability, made Indianas abortion rules among the countrys most restrictive, and led to scathing critiques of Mr. Pence, who said last month that he signed the bill with a prayer.
Anti-abortion groups praised the law, but abortion providers and womens groups denounced it as unduly burdensome and far more comprehensive than in many other states. Other states have enacted some of the same provisions, but have often done so piecemeal rather than in a single bill.On Thursday, the Indiana branches of Planned Parenthood and the American Civil Liberties Union filed a federal lawsuit seeking to block the legislation.
.@GovPenceIN is not a doctor. He needs to get out, stay out of our doctors' offices @ACLUIndiana #1337 #reprorights pic.twitter.com/qLNJ2MvrO1
Protesters keep the governor informedThe Facebook page, Periods for Pence, started late last month, features a grimacing photo of Mr. Pence and a request that women call the governors office to report our periods.You should really let him know, since hes so concerned, says an early post from the pages anonymous creator, who identifies herself only as an Indiana woman. It will only take a few minutes of your day, but it lets them face an undue and unjust burden, for a change!The pages creator takes particular issue with the requirement that miscarried fetuses be interred or cremated, noting that fertilized eggs can be expelled during a womans period without a woman even knowing she is pregnant.I would certainly hate for any of my fellow Hoosier women to be at risk of penalty if they do not properly dispose of this or report it, the post says. Just to cover our bases, perhaps we should make sure to contact Governor Pences office to report our periods.More than 32,000 people had liked that Facebook page as of Thursday, and an associated Twitter account had more than 1,600 followers. Though some Facebook commenters have defended the new law, scores of others have snarkily described their calls to Mr. Pences office or detailed their periods.
@PeriodsforPence: Perimenopausal bleeding happening now in South Bend. Some heavy flow, I tell you, Pence. Thanks so much for your concern!
The law has its supporters, tooThe bill passed both chambers of the Republican-controlled Indiana General Assembly with significant majorities, and Mr. Pence called it a comprehensive pro-life measure that affirms the value of all human life.
By enacting this legislation we take an important step in protecting the unborn, while still providing an exception for life of the mother
The bill signing was met with praise from prominent anti-abortion groups in the state, including Indiana Right to Life, which retweeted some backers of the law who thanked Mr. Pence for his decision.
.@irtl I just thanked Governor Mike Pence for signing the Dignity for Unborn Children law! https://t.co/vlpqX47cl3
This is not Mr. Pences first social media backlashThis storm of Twitter and Facebook posts comes just over a year after Mr. Pence faced criticism for signing a law that many believed would have allowed religious conservatives to deny services to gay people.
With businesses threatening to boycott the state over that issue and protests both on Twitter and at the Capitol, lawmakers regrouped and changed the law to specify that it did not allow discrimination based on sexual orientation.That episode was particularly damaging to Mr. Pence, who had been discussed as a possible presidential candidate but who managed to infuriate both political opponents and members of his own party with his handling of the bill.Mr. Pence is up for re-election this year, and many expect the race to be close. His spokeswoman, Kara Brooks, did not respond to a request for comment about the latest social media backlash.Despite the onslaught of critiques, Mr. Pences own Twitter account has remained active, though he has not mentioned abortion in recent days. On Thursday morning, Mr. Pence posted a photo of himself at a ceremonial bill-signing for legislation to help aspiring teachers.
I sign this bill into law w/ gratitude to all our educators whose hard work/passion inspire our kids every day pic.twitter.com/oWAmU5izYn
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Women Irked by Abortion Law Make Governor the Butt of Social Media Ridicule.


