Troops Cut Death, but Not Fear, in Baghdad Zone - 

Middle East|Troops Cut Death, but Not Fear, in Baghdad Zone
A United States Army soldier, right, stood by last month as Iraqi police officers talked with residents in Dora.
Scott Nelson/World Picture Network, for 
BAGHDAD, Iraq, Sept. 1  Three weeks after American and Iraqi troops began searching, fortifying and patrolling Dora, one of Baghdads bloodiest neighborhoods, the odor of death on the streets has eased. After 126 bodies surfaced in Dora in July, only 18 turned up in August, according to United States military figures. Killings, most often Sunni against Shiite or vice versa in this mixed neighborhood, dropped as well: 14 were reported last month, down from 73 in July.But in a country long on disappointment and short on hope, Dora represents only the embryo of progress. It was the first of several violent neighborhoods covered by a new Baghdad security plan  which seeks to create walled-in sanctuaries where economic development can grow in an environment of safety  and American and Iraqi officials are still struggling to make residents feel safe enough to let their children play in the streets.The local progress is coming as death tolls across the country have been soaring, up more than 50 percent in recent months, according to the latest Pentagon assessment. And in Baghdad as a whole, the toll has been high, with the citys morgue reporting more than 334 people killed or found dead from Aug. 24 to the end of the month.Most of those deaths occurred in areas without a reinforced military presence. Yet the challenge for American and Iraqi officials lies in spreading security to additional trouble spots without letting Dora slide back into lawlessness. American generals admit that lasting progress will be hard to achieve. Continue reading the main story
The difficult part is going to be holding these areas with Iraqi security forces, the top United States commander, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., told reporters on Wednesday. And building the relationships between the Iraqi people in the neighborhood and their security forces so they can get on with their economic development.
American forces have frequently focused on violent areas of Iraq and then moved on  in part because they lacked enough troops to hold the territory  only to return when chaos ensued. In Tal Afar for example, a dusty agrarian city northwest of Baghdad, American troops were forced to reassert control in 2005 after a large military offensive a year earlier failed to yield a lasting peace.In Dora, local leaders worry that violent gangs are just lying low, scouting for ways to circumvent the additional safeguards while attacking other neighborhoods or waiting for the Americans to leave.The calm situation right now is temporary, and if the state does not continue to build trust with the people, the situation might explode, said Sattar al-Jabouri, 51, a Sunni sheik and member of Doras municipal council. We know there are people who do not want this operation to succeed.Mr. Jabouri emphasized that the American presence had made Dora safer. Like others in the area, he raved about being able to sleep again on his roof, away from the sweltering indoor heat. He said some of the families who had fled the violence seemed to be returning, and that the Iraqis and Americans who searched his home were respectful and seemed sincerely interested in improving the neighborhood.Col. Michael Beech, the American commander overseeing Dora, said the second phase of the operation, now in effect, included cutting off all but a few access points, searching every car that entered Dora, and linking American soldiers with Iraqi police officers for joint patrols. Sections of the neighborhood have been assigned to the same squads so that residents and officers can become better acquainted.The United States military has also allotted $5 million to Dora and the surrounding area, with much of the current outlay going to Iraqis who pick up trash.On a recent afternoon, the results were hard to miss. Piles of rancid garbage behind the market had been cleared, and workers elsewhere tossed more into trucks. Iraqi police cars and American humvees lined the streets.Yet even as residents described the progress as encouraging, they said that life in Dora had not returned to normal. They trust neither neighbors nor the police. They still keep their children indoors. They still warn visitors to stay away.
On a block of the main shopping district on a recent morning, half the stores remained shuttered. Anmar al-Mayahi, 23, a Shiite shoe salesman who owns a store that is still closed, described Dora as a place where anxiety holds hope at arms length.
Killings have declined in Dora, part of the broader Rashid district.
After two roadside bombs exploded recently in the neighborhood, on streets ringed by checkpoints, Mr. Mayahi worried that the additional security precautions were beginning to break down.Where did they get their weapons? he asked. How did they get them into the neighborhood with all the extra protection?If the Americans leave, it will go back to killing in the streets, he said. It will be civil war.Mr. Mayahi said his pessimism stemmed from experience. Over the past year, several attacks at the market pushed panicked women into this store, crying for help. A few months ago, he said, two men waving pistols ran by and fired into the crowd of shoppers. The police pulled Mr. Mayahi in for questioning, and beat him after asserting, incorrectly, that he was a Sunni. He recalled their justification as being, All Sunnis are dogs.He said he was thrown into a small, dank room with more than 100 people and a toilet in the center. One guy next to me said, Ive been
here for a year and a half and no one has let me leave,  Mr. Mayahi said. I started crying.His father, a science teacher, managed to buy his sons freedom  paying about $250 for his release.Most people in Dora can recite similar tales of what amounts to sectarian cleansing. Abdul Rahman Hassan, 25, a Sunni baker who lives on a street just off the main thoroughfare, said he saw his Shiite neighbors threatened a few months ago and told to leave the neighborhood.
When one mans family did not move fast enough, They planted a bomb in front of his house, he said. His son was injured, and his daughter was killed.Given such cases, it is no surprise that people here simply laugh when asked if they are still nervous after a few weeks of relative safety. Of course were still nervous, Mr. Hassan explained. People are hidden, doing horrible things. We dont see them. We just see their actions.Iraqi security forces  who outnumbered Americans more than six to one during the initial week of the operation  are also struggling with Doras uncertainties. Even with killings so far down, roadside bombs are still common in the broader Rashid district, of which Dora is a part. In August, 81 bombs were found, 56 detonated and 7 caused casualties, the United States military said. A month earlier, the numbers were similar: 89 discovered, 66 detonated and 8 that were effective.Iraqi officials enlisted a new national police brigade several months ago to manage the area after officers were accused of taking part in kidnappings and killings. But many of the new recruits have received little or no training. And with abandoned homes being filled by both legitimate returnees and squatters, differentiating friend from foe has become the challenge.We have a huge problem now that we cant know who the terrorists are and who the real neighbors are, said Gen. Mahdi Sabeeh al-Gharawi, commander of the Second Division of the national police, which covers much of southern Baghdad. So many people fled from their homes and other families have come in.For an immediate solution, he said, he started asking residents to fill out information cards so officers could verify that the people moving into the houses really owned them.The broader hope is that the political process in Iraq will accelerate and create bonds across sects and persuade militias to disarm. General Casey and other American commanders have promised that the Baghdad security operation will last months, not weeks. They have pledged to tackle every neighborhood, including Sadr City, the stronghold of the Mahdi Army, a militia loyal to the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr.The question is whether the American military has enough soldiers to expand even as it tries to sustain progress in the first neighborhoods secured.The people of Dora say they can hardly bear the thought of being abandoned.
Reporting for this article was contributed by Khalid W. Hassan, Omar al-Neami, Ali Adeeb, Qais Mizher and Edward Wong.
A credit with an article on Monday about the impact on a Baghdad neighborhood of an effort by American and Iraqi troops to increase security misspelled the surname of the reporter who contributed information. He is Edward Wong, not Wone.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Troops Cut Death, but Not Fear, in Baghdad Zone.


