Farhad and Joe Examine Silicon Valleys Pull in Washington - 

Technology|Farhad and Joe Examine Silicon Valleys Pull in Washington
Farhad and Joe Examine Silicon Valleys Pull in Washington
On Capitol Hill this week, chairs were reserved for representatives of Apple and the F.B.I. for a hearing on encryption before a House panel.
Each Saturday, Farhad Manjoo and Mike Isaac, technology reporters at , review the weeks news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Mr. Isaac is out this week, so Joe Plambeck, deputy technology editor, is filling in.Farhad: Howdy, Joe! Mike has the week off, so Im thrilled to have a big-shot tech editor like you join the discussion. As I tell every guest who takes Mikes place here, you have some small shoes to fill.Joe: Thanks, Farhad. Its a joy to be here. To get myself in something of a Mike Mode, Ive been reading about tech while eating burritos on my couch all week. I must say, what a life that guy lives.Farhad: On to this weeks news. First, there were lots of new products. Amazon announced two new versions of its Echo voice-controlled assistant  one of them is portable, and the other is meant for plugging into your home stereo. The move suggests that Amazon sees the device, which many once ridiculed, as a potential hit.
DJI introduced a new drone, the Phantom 4, that does something amazing: It can see its environment and fly by itself, avoiding obstacles. Considering that many consumer drone flights end in crashes, autonomous flight could be a huge breakthrough  if, that is, it works. Continue reading the main story
Joe: That is an important if. And Im not sure the self-flying machines will make the many regulators and lawmakers who are skeptical of drones  and who are one of the biggest hurdles to truly widespread adoption  any less skeptical.
Subscribe to the Bits Newsletter Get caught up on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry, plus exclusive analysis from our reporters and editors, delivered to your inbox six days a week.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for 's products and services.
Yahoo also made a small bit of news this week, and not of the negative sort flowing out of the company for many months now. Just a few weeks ago, Marissa Mayer, Yahoos embattled leader, said she was going to dial back on its editorial ambitions. But this week, Yahoo introduced a new site for e-sports. Its an expansion of Yahoo Sports, one of the companys few bright spots, and e-sports is obviously a booming area of interest online.Lets also not overlook more rumblings out of Europe. The German competition authority opened an investigation into whether Facebook is abusing its dominant position to collect personal information about users. The investigation raises an interesting question: Could Facebook be pushing people to give up more information than they would like because they have no other good social networking option? It isnt the sort of antitrust investigation we usually see.Farhad: And then there was big news in goggles.Joe: Part of me cant believe you just wrote that sentence.Farhad: Look, goggles are the next big thing! Microsoft began taking orders for a preview version of the HoloLens, the companys augmented-reality glasses, which allow you to see and manipulate digital objects superimposed on the real world. Theyll sell for $3,000, but theyre not ready for prime time; Microsoft says this early version is for developers looking to build HoloLens apps. A start-up called Meta also began taking orders for the second version of its A.R. goggles  those sell for $949, and they, too, are meant for developers.Finally, two pioneers in cryptography, Whitfield Diffie and Martin Hellman, received the Turing Award this week, also known as the Nobel Prize of computing. The timing was interesting, as it came during the increasingly heated battle between Apple and the F.B.I. over encryption and the iPhone  the very technology inspired by the two mens work.And that gets us to our main topic for the week. Much of the tech industry rallied around Apple this week: Dropbox, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Snapchat and Yahoo all signed on to legal briefs in support of Apples position, though not without some internal hand-wringing. The battle lines in this case are becoming increasingly clear. Tech is on one side and Washington is on the other. Over the last couple of years, many tech giants, including Google and Facebook, have tried to establish closer relationships with lawmakers and regulators. What do you think this case means for the standing of tech in D.C.?
Joe: There seems to be an interesting rally-around-the-flag trend in Silicon Valley. In recent years, the industry has coalesced for a few big fights in Washington, including SOPA  the Stop Online Piracy Act  and net neutrality.
Breaking Down Apples iPhone Fight With the U.S. Government
The technology company has been locked in a major legal battle against law enforcement officials over privacy and security.
Whats unclear is what the Silicon Valley flag stands for. I dont know how much of this is about principles and how much is just about the pursuit of profit. The efforts do seem pretty effective, though, and I think we should expect only more of this. The industry has long had disdain for Washington; now, with business booming and the companies as powerful as ever, it seems to have learned how to express the disdain for political ends. Where do you think this could manifest itself next?Farhad: I think its still an open question whether the tech industry has real power in Washington, at least compared with other moneyed industries, like media or oil and gas or finance. Sure, tech can muster a big push when there are collective threats to how it works  SOPA being the prime example  but the industry is less effective at advancing its interests.For instance, techies have been pushing for immigration reform for years; Mark Zuckerberg made it a signature issue earlier this decade. What happened? Nothing.Joe: Thats exactly right. I do think the message coming from government officials this week on the issue of encryption was quite interesting. For the first week or so after the fight with Apple became public, the F.B.I. and the Obama administration seemed to do a lot of aggressive chest-thumping on this issue. This week, though, some top government officials visited techs backyard and had a different sort of message: Lets find some common ground.Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter, for example, said he did not want companies to create so-called back doors to their products. The F.B.I. has been saying something similar, but that message has largely been drowned out by the bureaus bullhorn calls for Apple to break into the phone of one of the shooters involved in the San Bernardino, Calif., terrorist attack.And of course, what Mr. Carter and the F.B.I. consider a back door is not exactly what the tech industry does. There is clearly a disconnect on many levels between Silicon Valley and Washington.Farhad: Theyre two different worlds, and theyll only move further apart. Pretty much like my relationship with Mike. Anyway, at least I got a break from him this week. This was fun, Joe. Till next time!Joe: Were done? Thank goodness. Mikes tiny shoes are killing my feet. Continue reading the main story

Defense Secretary Takes Position Against a Data Back Door
Apple Gets Tech Industry Backing in iPhone Dispute, Despite Misgivings
White House Officials Soften Approach at RSA Conference
Insight and analysis on Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Daily Report: When Your Company is Famous but Unprofitable
Daily Report: Every Big Deal Must Have a Great Tech Angle
Daily Report: Robots Can Kill and Deliver Beer. Do We Need Humans?
Daily Report: Hackers Have New Tools to Bring Down Websites
Defense Secretary Takes Position Against a Data Back Door
Apple Gets Tech Industry Backing in iPhone Dispute, Despite Misgivings
White House Officials Soften Approach at RSA Conference

