Forget millennials. The expectation of at-your-fingertips access to money insight and management spans generations—and the next generation of innovative financial technology delivers. Join our live panel of fintech experts to learn how to win with the consumer-centric service the market demands.

Register here for free.

­­­­­­­­

Services like Facebook, LinkedIn, and Netflix have become essential to modern life as increasingly, consumers aren’t just willing to have all their data connected and aggregated online—they expect it.

“And financial services is the same category,” says Jim Del Favero, chief product officer at the technology-based wealth management firm Personal Capital. “Their expectation is no longer paper statements or poor-quality user experiences. There’s a huge expectation that all of these financial services operate like the other things they’re doing online.”

Over 1 million users are tracking about 250 billion dollars on the Personal Capital platform, Del Favero says, and more than half of their usage is via mobile. It’s important to note that their customers aren’t just millennials living their lives online. They’re users in their 30s, 40s and 50s with complex lives and complicated finances, and they want more transparency—and control—over their financial lives and wealth portfolio.

“But the conflict happens when the financial institution says, ‘We would rather you go to our site for everything,’” says Del Favero. “Traditional FIs want to own the entire relationship. And that’s not something the user is that open to, especially after ’08. There’s even fewer people who are willing to put their entire financial life in one financial institution.”

So that’s the opportunity for financial applications that use aggregated data—to link a customer’s accounts including bank, brokerage, 401(k), mortgage, credit cards and loan statements together to view the whole picture.

“It’s about first, having access to the raw data, and secondly, how you transform it, how you marry it with other sources of data to add additional value—what you’re going to deliver to users,” says Del Favero. “And then it’s about having the high-quality data analytics to look at the data to detect patterns and provide advice.”

This holistic approach to financial services is an opportunity that still hasn’t been fully realized, Del Favero says.

“It’s understanding the user in a way that allows you to tailor products and services and allows you to sell them even better,” Del Favero explains. “For the consumer, it’s really applying data science to understand life events, to understand opportunities to improve someone’s situation. How can we analyze financial data to help people make better decisions and actually drive change in behavior? I think that’s the big future of this space.”

The number of opportunities and applications are growing every day, says Del Favero, and banks are getting left behind.

For more on how technology innovation is transforming the financial services industry—and where the opportunities are—don’t miss our free VB Live roundtable!

Don’t miss out.

Register here for free!

In this VB Live event, you’ll learn about:

The increasing demand for fintech apps to create an individualized digital banking experience

The rapid advancement of gathering and analyzing consumer transactional data

How fintech developers can leverage contextual data to improve customer products

Speakers:

Jim Del Favero, Chief Product Officer at Personal Capital

Chief Product Officer at Personal Capital Alex Cram, Co-Founder and Chief Technology Officer, Track Technologies

Co-Founder and Chief Technology Officer, Track Technologies Mani Fazeli, VP of Product, Wave

VP of Product, Wave Robin Verderosa, Senior Product Manager, Envestnet | Yodlee

Moderator: