
Savory and saucy: Calamari stuffed with shrimp and black-pepper taralli.
Roland Bello for . Food stylist: Maggie Ruggiero. Prop stylist: Lili Abir Regen.
Ive always loved Italian food. Thats barely worth saying, because everyone loves Italian food. But I really love it. I grew up the only Chinese kid I knew in my New Jersey suburb, packing stinky lunches for school and feeling funny about it, and Italian food is what made me feel as if I could belong.Every once in a while, my parents would take me to work with them in Manhattan. For a treat, wed walk a few blocks out of Chinatown to eat in Little Italy. Wed get linguine with clams. Noodles and seafood, wheat and a whiff of low-tide funk. As Chinese people, we understood this food, just as the white people surrounding us did. Sitting at those tables, I reveled in the exotic taste of butter; I reveled in feeling that I fit in with Americans.What I didnt know then, of course, was that Italians were long considered something other than American. While in college, I learned that an Italian friends father refused to eat garlic, afraid that the scent would identify him.In 1880, New York City was home to fewer than 20,000 Italians; 30 years later, there were more than 25 times that. They came tired and poor, and huddled together in tenements. They were, to put it lightly, not entirely welcomed. An 1891 editorial in  noted that our own rattlesnakes are as good citizens as they, an ugly but common sentiment at the time. More established Irish communities and churches dealt warily with their new Catholic neighbors, refusing to sponsor Italian feast days, and when the parishes did allow Italians, they were often ceded only the church basement.But by the 1930s, over a million Italians lived in New York, one in every six people, and it had become the most Italian city in the country. By the time Camille Orrichio Loccisano was growing up in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, in the 60s and 70s, the community was three and four generations deep, spread throughout the city. Pizza had become one of the national foods of New York City.
A former restaurant owner and the granddaughter of immigrants from Naples, Loccisano recently took me on a tour of her Brooklyn  Bay Ridge, Dyker Heights and Bensonhurst  stopping at Italian markets and bakeries, and shelf after shelf contained ingredients that reminded her of, say, the time an old Sicilian lady taught her how to fill eggplants with mint, garlic and cheese, or when she started to make her mothers famous stuffed calamari recipe her own, filling them with shrimp and intensely peppery, buttery breadcrumbs, and simmering them in tomato sauce until they came out like gorgeous, fat dumplings in a deep, briny sauce. She served these to adoring crowds every Friday in her Bensonhurst restaurant, the appropriately-named Casa Calamari, until she left it in 2005.As she told me these stories, Loccisano kept returning to the idea that, as Italian as her life has always been here, shes also proud of the fact that there are families of many cultures all around her Bensonhurst neighborhood  Scandinavians and Irish and Greeks and Arabs and Chinese. But I remembered my friends garlic-avoiding grandfather, not to mention the Spike Lee movies Ive seen, and I asked her if shed ever felt any kind of ethnic tension. She was resolute. No, Ive never felt different, she said. Ive always felt right at home. But I feel like I have an immigrants soul.
Truthfully, I kind of cant imagine what an immigrants soul looks like without some anxiety about not belonging, some constant, low-rumbling concern that the ground beneath your feet isnt quite firm, but I certainly didnt want to press it. And when we started talking about the restaurant she owned, I started to understand.It was an Italian restaurant, but Id always make corned beef and cabbage for St. Patricks Day, she said. I have a great recipe for Irish soda bread. You have to make people feel welcome. But, you know, when we make our food, everyone who smells it becomes Italian. To this day, she said, she still makes her stuffed calamari for her brothers Swedish-Native American ex-wife because she misses it so much.
Like politics, all emotional connections are local, and when I asked Loccisano about some of the people who would come to her house of squid, she opened up her memories, recalling moments small and large. The old man who kept asking if she served stuffed veal breast, made the way his wife did before she died. (She didnt, until years later, and it always reminds her of him.) The gentleman in his 50s who asked if he could stash something in the basement. (It was a suit he bought that day. And roses. He ran down and changed during dinner, came up and proposed to his girlfriend.) The man who stormed off without his Christmas Eve dinner because he was furious at having to wait for it. (Francis, I still see him in church! Loccisano told me.) The woman who came in with her husband on a Saturday, when they would have music, and who spent the night dancing with him in the dining room. (She said that she wanted to enjoy every moment she had left. She was dying, and she didnt want to stop touching her husbands face.) When you see all that living happening at your table, I realized, all you see is how your food makes people belong with one another.Recipe: Stuffed Calamari
Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of  Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page MM30 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: Casa Calamari.

Our resident columnists Tamar Adler, Francis Lam and Sam Sifton write about recipes readers should be cooking right now.

