Boot up: Motorola's patent block, McAfee caught?, questions over Windows 8 sales and more
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/blog/2012/dec/03/technology-links-newsbucket
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team The statisticians at Fox News use classic and novel graphical techniques to lead with data  Simply Statistics Jeff Leek:   when flipping through the graphs I thought it was interesting to highlight some of the techniques they use to persuade. Some are clearly classics from the literature, but some are (as far as I can tell) newly developed graphical persuasion techniques.   Where by persuasion he actually means lying (and the headlines word lead should actually be lie.) Taiwan market: Asustek set to sell 150,000 units of PadFone 2 in the next six months  Digitimes  Asustek Computer has achieved total sales of 25,000-30,000 units of its PadFone 2 in Taiwan since the devices launch I October, and with a white version to be released soon, the company expects total shipments in Taiwan over the next six months to reach 150,000 units, according to company vice president Benson Lin.   Steve Ballmer might call those numbers modest. China market: iPad occupies over 71% of 3Q12 tablet sales, says Analysys  Digitimes  There were 2.6m tablets sold in the China market during the third quarter of 2012, increasing by 11.1% on quarter and by 62.5% on year, and the iPad series had the largest market share of 71.42%, according to Analysys International. For business-use tablet models alone, Eben had the largest market share of 41.07%, followed by Samsung Electronics with 19.66%, Asustek Computer with 9.17%, ViewSonic with 4.37% and Lenovo with 3.89%, Analysys indicated.   Eben? In a blow to Android, judge says Moto patents cant get injunctions | Ars Technica  The fact that the bench trial over pricing was held at all wasnt a good sign for Motorola, and this new ruling is an additional blow against it.  The problem for Motorola is that it cant show it deserves anything more than monetary damages. An injunction is a powerful remedy, and in order to get it, a company has to prove its been harmed in a way that a money award cant compensate for. But in this case, money is enough, US District Judge James Robart ruled.  Because Microsoft will pay royalties under any license agreement from the time of infringement within the statute of limitations, this license agreement will constitute Motorolas remedy for Microsofts use of Motorolas H.264 standard essential patent portfolio to include the Motorola Asserted Patents. Accordingly, Motorola cannot demonstrate that it has been irreparably harmed.  Robart went further than just dealing with the patents in his case. His order, he specified, applies for Motorolas entire H.264 standard essential patent portfolio, including certain European patents at issue in a German action.   Big loss for Motorola Mobility (MMI), and thus for its owner Google whose whole rationale for buying MMI was to get its patents to fight back with. Without injunctions, the patents make MMI a low-earning rentier. Breaking: John captured?  Who is McAfee? Friday 1: December:   We have received an unconfirmed report that John McAfee has been captured at the border of Belize and Mexico.  Windows 8 Sales: Good, Bad, or Ugly?  Windows Supersite Paul Thurrott:   Im surprised no one else has questioned why launch-month license sales of Windows 8 werent higher than 40 million units. That figure is double the normal sales rate for Windows--remember, Windows 7 sold about 20 million licenses a month for three years straight--but, looked at another way, its only double the normal sales rate of Windows. How is it not more than double? Windows 8 is the least expensive version of Windows that Microsoft has ever sold, and the company is practically giving it away via upgrade programs for Windows 7 PC buyers (with a $15 upgrade) and a web-based upgrader for Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7 that costs just $40. Even the retail version of Windows 8 Pro, at $70, is significantly less expensive than the retail version of its closest predecessor, Windows 7 Professional, which cost $200, normally, though during a special promotion for that OS, it was briefly $100. So the cheapest Windows 7 Pro upgrade, back then, was $60 more expensive than the cheapest you can get today. Why havent more people upgraded?   The new Microsofts biggest rival turns out to be its old self. Evan Buys A Microsoft Surface  Evans blog  My original sales rep takes the items over to the register, pulls out a tired old scanner gun and zaps my two items. The Microsoft laptop acting as the register immediately crashes. She looks up at me and says Sorry my computer crashed. Just give me a second to reboot.   Ouch.  FTC should proceed with case against Google  Huffington Post Jamie Court:   When you stare down a $220 billion corporation, its hard not to blink. But if the Federal Trade Commission doesnt deliver on its ultimatum to Google that it settle its antitrust problems soon for real relief or face prosecution, then consumers will never get the open and unfettered online and mobile access to information they deserve. While the governments battle with Microsoft in the 1990s was about whether the dominant software company could bundle software and an Internet browser, the antitrust case against Google is about whether one company should have so much control over online information that it can steer us any where it chooses for its own profit.   Court is president of Consumer Watchdog, an independent US body which makes its money from legal cases it claims on behalf of consumers. Dangerous implications of politicizing antitrust law: Google critics hit new lows  Disruptive Competition Project Daniel OConnor:   With metered data and limited bandwidth, consumers are disinclined to click links and browse other websites to get their answers. This is also why Googles competitors have assured investors that search engines are decreasing in importance as mobile users navigate to their services directly through mobile apps. If Googles search cant respond to a search for Chinese Restaurants in Union Square with a map of Chinese restaurants in Union Square and their respective ratings, the company stands to lose those eyeballs to competitors like Yelp. In fact, it already is. Lets move on.   The DisCO (as it calls itself) seems to be peopled by denizens of the CCIA, which is funded by a number of big computer companies, including Microsoft and Google - though not Apple. King of Samsung: a chairmans reign of cunning and corruption  The Verge  While Lee Kun-hee once implored his workers to change everything but your wife and kids, that change may not go far enough for Samsung. The traditional chaebol model has helped the company become one of the most successful in the world, but its conservative values are unlikely to help it become a major force for innovation. Lee Kun-hees controversial time in charge has undeniably brought the company success -- for Samsung to become a truly loved brand, however, it must start looking to a new generation of leadership that prioritizes design and originality over ruthless competition.  You can follow Guardian Technologys linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service.
