FILM REVIEW; Scowls and Rants Facing Mugs and Riffs - 

Movies|FILM REVIEW; Scowls and Rants Facing Mugs and Riffs
FILM REVIEW; Scowls and Rants Facing Mugs and Riffs
Steve Zahn and Martin Lawrence play a mismatched pair of security guards in ''National Security,'' an interracial buddy action comedy opening nationwide today. As such relationships go, theirs is admirably egalitarian. They take turns driving, shooting guns and punching each other in the face.The two men are about the same size and shape -- a bit stubby for action-hero athleticism, perhaps, but nothing a little fast editing can't fix -- and have similarly antic personalities.Mr. Zahn, however, who has been a shambling, volatile doofus in movies like ''Joyride'' and ''Riding in Cars With Boys,'' must here shoulder the white-man's-interracial-buddy-movie burden, which is to be the ill-tempered, badly dressed foil for his fast-talking, wildly unpredictable African-American counterpart. (It would require many column inches to list the variations on this indefatigable movie theme. The modern template is probably ''48 Hours''; a notable exception to the rule of white-guy stolidity versus black-guy volatility is the ''Lethal Weapon'' series with Danny Glover and Mel Gibson.)As Hank Rafferty, a disgraced Los Angeles police officer, Mr. Zahn, in an unflattering mustache, a flat-top haircut and a succession of undistinguished plaid shirts, is restricted to scowling, ranting and grimacing. Mr. Lawrence, meanwhile, is given free rein to mug, riff and ramble in his familiar cartoon style.He also has the honor of owning the movie's catchphrase. ''What the problem is?'' Mr. Lawrence's character, a police academy reject named Earl Montgomery, asks again and again. It's a rhetorical question, of course, but the problems of ''National Security'' are extensive enough to defy summary in the available space. For starters, there is a thorough -- you might almost say a systematic -- lack of imagination in the script (by Jay Scherick and David Ronn), the direction (by Dennis Dugan), the camerawork, the music and the acting. There are quite a few nerve-racking car chases, which seem to have been spliced together from old episodes of ''Starsky and Hutch,'' right down to the period-appropriate cars and vans. The hip-hop-inflected soundtrack, which is not bad, is interrupted by deafening gunfire and, sometimes simultaneously, by Mr. Lawrence's motor-mouthed improvisations.
''Do you really believe the stuff that comes out of your mouth?'' Hank asks Earl at one point. ''I don't know till I'm finished talking,'' Earl replies. Of course, he's never really finished talking, but the remark nicely sums up both what is irritating about Mr. Lawrence's comic style and what makes it intermittently funny. The sheer quantity of his verbiage increases the statistical likelihood that he will get off a good line now and then, and he does. (To repeat them here would be to deny you what little pleasure this movie affords.)He is also good at feigning hurt, outrage and soulfulness, though his emotions always resolve into a manic playfulness edged with both anxiety and hostility. Like most comedians, he desperately wants to be liked, and at the same time he seems repelled by his own neediness, which produces an occasional feeble gesture of contempt.Mr. Zahn, for his part, seethes and stews as the two of them trudge through the usual obstacles on the path from mutual hatred to brotherly respect. Their first meeting, which results in Hank's being convicted of police brutality and sent to prison for six months, is a lame attempt to inject a bit of raw topicality into the picture's tired racial humor (and also a sloppy stab at physical comedy). Since ''48 Hours,'' in which Nick Nolte's angry white cop wore his bigotry like a badly concealed weapon, the dynamics of race in popular culture have grown both more complicated and more equivocal, but ''National Security'' lacks the wit to do anything new and instead recycles tired jokes and attitudes. After ''What the problem is?'' Earl's most frequently repeated question is ''Is it because I'm black?''The plot? Oh, yes, I almost forgot -- and so did the filmmakers, who have stapled together some shady business involving dirty cops and stolen metals, masterminded by a villain named Nash (Eric Roberts, with tattoos and platinum blond hair, looking less malevolent than depressed), who was responsible for the death of Earl's partner. Also on hand, looking even wearier than Mr. Roberts, is Bill Duke playing a glowering L.A.P.D. lieutenant who must endure quite a bit of Earl and Hank's ricocheting shtick. Mr. Duke is so much taller than they are that the camera has trouble holding all three of them in the frame, but he often looks as if he would be happier somewhere else. His look of impassive disgust makes him the audience's surrogate.''National Security'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has some swearing, much gunfire and a few moments of pointless lechery.NATIONAL SECURITYDirected by Dennis Dugan; written by Jay Scherick and David Ronn; director of photography, Oliver Wood; edited by Debra Neil-Fisher; music by Randy Edelman; production designer, Larry Fulton; produced by Bobby Newmyer, Jeff Silver and Michael Green; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 90 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.WITH: Martin Lawrence (Earl Montgomery), Steve Zahn (Hank Rafferty), Colm Feore (Detective Frank McDuff), Bill Duke (Lieutenant Washington), Eric Roberts (Nash) and Timothy Busfield (Charlie Reed). Continue reading the main story


