How to Train Like the Mountain From Game of Thrones - 

Mens Style|How to Train Like the Mountain From Game of Thrones
How to Train Like the Mountain From Game of Thrones
Hafthor Julius Bjornsson eats eight meals a day, combining eggs with oatmeal and fruit for breakfast. His other meals consist of meats, grains, vegetables and fatty foods like avocados and peanut butter.
Its my passion and my dream to become the worlds strongest man, said Hafthor Julius Bjornsson, the Icelandic giant best known as Gregor Clegane, or the Mountain, on HBOs Game of Thrones, which returns this month.
But its not enough to just be strong, he said: You have to be quick. You have to have flexibility.
This isnt a figurative statement: The Worlds Strongest Man is an annual competition  perhaps you have seen those taking part in the act of pulling airplanes or racing while carrying pairs of refrigerators. On three occasions, Mr. Bjornsson, who stands 6 feet 9 inches and weighs 396 pounds, has made the top three.Over the last seven years, he has added 166 pounds to his frame by ditching most of his cardio workouts, eating like a horse and lifting weights.
In seven years, he has added 166 pounds to his frame.
The Man Hafthor Julius Bjornsson, 27, also known as Thor. Actor, strength competitor, father and boyfriend. (My girlfriend, shes a bit small, he said. Shes around 163 pounds.)The Gear Free weights and barbells, a bench press and simple weight machines.The Uniform He wears spandex shorts, a weight belt and a custom tank top that reads, Training to Fight the Mountain. When I post on my Instagram wearing my tank top, people laugh and say, Arent you the Mountain? I say, Yes, I am, but I am fighting myself every day to try and be better.
His workouts include sets with free weights, barbells, a bench press and simple weight machines.
The Regimen A series of basic dead lifts, bench presses and squats in sets of three to five, using extreme amounts of weight, for two to four hours every day. Mr. Bjornsson already dominates the carrying and dragging events in the Worlds Strongest Man, so his focus is on other things now. I train mostly for my static power: dead lifts, he said.
The Trainer Mr. Bjornsson works out at a gym run by Magnus Ver Magnusson, a four-time Worlds Strongest Man winner. To become one of the best stone lifters in the world, you have to have a good trainer, he said.
NYT Living Newsletter Get lifestyle news from the Style, Travel and Food sections, from the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for 's products and services.
The Goal I would like to win the Worlds Strongest Man competition, as you would win best writer in the world, he said. Is that a title that exists?The Diet Mr. Bjornsson packs away eight meals a day. Breakfast consists of eight eggs, with oatmeal and fruit. The other meals comprise meats, grains and vegetables as well as fatty foods like avocado and organic peanut butter. I eat quite healthy for a big guy like me, but you get sick of eating all the time, he said. Today, I was supposed to have chicken with sweet potatoes and greens. Because I didnt want that, I had salmon. We have very good fish in Iceland. Everything is expensive in Iceland, especially food, and especially healthy food.The Bonus Round He swims and bikes for cardio. You cant just be strong, he said. You have to be quick. You have to have flexibility.The Log Mr. Bjornsson broke a 1,000-year-old record, legend has it, held previously by a Viking named Orm Storulfsson, by carrying a 1,433-pound, 30-foot-long log over his shoulder for five steps. It is said that Storulfsson lasted three steps  with a 1,410-pound log  before his back broke.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page D9 of the New York edition with the headline: Strong Like Viking.


