Gun Episode Likely to Spur New Surveillance Dispute - 

Archives|Gun Episode Likely to Spur New Surveillance Dispute
Gun Episode Likely to Spur New Surveillance Dispute
September 7, 1975, Page 1  Archives
WASHINGTON, Sept. 6The episode in which a woman pointed a gun at President Ford yesterday is expected to reopen the, controversy here over the degree to which Federal agencies may intrude on personal privacy and civil liberties in an effort to protect the President and preserve order, senior Federal law enforcement sources said today.The controversy is expected to center on whether the Government has the right to maintain dossiers and keep track of persons with a history of violence or those who make violent threats against the Government though not against the President or other individuals.Mr. Ford spent an uneventful day after his narrow escape in Sacramento, Calif. In the morning he met with seven Democratic senators to discuss domestic oil price controls. He gave the senators what his press aide called a bief synopsis of the episodealmost a replay of his remarks yesterday.Shortly after noon he was driven by car to the Burning Tree Country Club in nearby Maryland where he was a participant in an annual fall golf tournament for members.After an afternoon of golf, Mr. Ford attended a reception at Bolling Air Force Base and dined with friends at a Washington sea food restaurant.
Though the Secret Service declined to comment on whether security around Mr. Ford had been increased, experienced observers said there was no apparent increase in the protection detail, and the President arrived at Burning Tree by car as usual. When security is stepped up the President often makes shortrange local moves by helicopter.The White House and the President have striven to keep a businessasusual atmosphere. Mr. Ford set the tone yesterday when he told newsmen, In my judgment, it is vitally important for a President to see the American people, and I am going to continue to have that personal contact and relationship with the American people.The controversy over protection of the President is not expected to involve how the services's White House detail handles physical attacks. Security experts in both the Secret Service and other Federal agencies agreed that the swift response of special agent Larry M. Buendorf in grabbing the woman's gun was, as one put it, a textbook case of an alert security officer.The question is why was that girl allowed to get within two feet of the President at all, one agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation said. He and several other intelligence and law enforcement officials asked not to be quoted by name because they did not want in any way to disrupt the investigation and prosecution.No Secret Service FileA spokesman for the Secret Service ruled out today the possibility that a file on the suspect, Lynette Alice Fromme, a 26  year  old follower of mass murderer Charles M. Manson, had been kept in the, Secret Service computer. She was not on record as being a security threat to the President, he said.Nevertheless, the California police authorities and the F.B.I. both had files on Miss Fromme and on all the members of the Manson family. She was charged with murder in Stockton, Calif., in 1972, although the charge was later reduced and then dropped, and this too would have resulted in Federal records being created.Moreover, Miss Fromme was reported to the police in July by an Associated Press correspondent after an interview in which she made general threats of violence if social conditions in the United States did not improve.In another instance she was filmed for a television documentary fondling a rifle. She said on the film: You have to make love with it. You have to know every part of it so that you could pick it up any second and shoot. The film was not used.
In the late nineteensixties and early nineteenseventies, Federal law enforcement officials said, these instances might well have resulted in the creation of a dossier on Miss Fromme as a political dissident and a possible danger. But now, they argue, the pressure of civil libertarians has made Federal agencies bare their records to only specific crimes or threats.The Secret Service keens files on 47,000 persons who are considered potential threats to the President and other highranking officials. Its officials have testified that though the list contains the names of political dissidents they are not there for their political views but because of some othor disruptive activity.The Secret Service has been particularly sensitive about an operation called watchbird, which is a periodic check on the whereabouts and status of persons who have made threats against the President. This operation is not connected with any given Presidential trip, but is an effort to keep track of a hard core of persons believed to be a substantial threat to the safety of the President.It was clear in several interviews following the gun episode yesterday that Federal lawmen saw Miss Fromme's action as justification for maintaining intelligence files on persons with known histories of violence or violent political views.But in hearings last spring, Representative Bella Abzug, Democrat of Manhattan, established that even nonviolent political dissidents, such as the leaders of the Quaker antiwar movement, ended up in Secret Service files.2 ExConvicts JailedSANTA BARBARA, Calif., Sept. 6 (AP)Two former convicts are in jail here on Federal charges of making threats against President Ford, the authorities say.The police said yesterday that Gary S. DeSur, 31 years old, and Preston M. Mayo, 24, were being held on $100,000 bond each, set by a United States magistrate in Los Angeles.The two were described as drifters with no permanent addresses. Detective Robert A. Zapata said Mr. DeSur was an escapee from the Montana State Hospital in Springfield.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on September 7, 1975, on page 1 of the New York edition with the headline: Gun Episode Likely to Spur New Surveillance Dispute.

