Netanyahu Calls Off Obama Visit, and Fingers Point - 

Politics|Netanyahu Calls Off Obama Visit, and Fingers Point
When it comes to the strained relationship between President Obama and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, even a single missed meeting is cause for grievance and accusations.So it was on Monday, when Mr. Netanyahu abruptly canceled a trip to Washington that was to have included a visit with Mr. Obama. The decision was quickly interpreted as the latest evidence of a lingering rift between two leaders whose public break last year over the Iran nuclear deal brought the American relationship with Israel to a bitter low.Mr. Netanyahu had long planned to travel to Washington next week to attend the annual policy conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, an influential pro-Israeli group known as Aipac.The Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported on Monday that he would not attend the conference because he had not been offered a meeting with Mr. Obama. The White House later dispatched a spokesman for the National Security Council to insist that it was Mr. Netanyahu who had turned down a chance to meet with the president. The spokesman also noted pointedly that Israeli officials had not personally informed Mr. Obamas team of the prime ministers change of plans.We were looking forward to hosting the bilateral meeting, and we were surprised to first learn via media reports that the prime minister, rather than accept our invitation, opted to cancel his visit, the spokesman, Ned Price, said on Monday.
Mr. Price said that the Israeli government had requested a meeting on March 17 or 18, and that White House officials had offered one on the 18th.
First Draft Political news and analysis from the staff of .
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for 's products and services.
Israeli officials said that no snub was intended. In a statement, the prime ministers office said that Ron Dermer, the Israeli ambassador, had told Mr. Obamas team on Friday that while Mr. Netanyahu appreciated the offer for a meeting, there was a good chance that the prime minister would not be coming to Washington.The officials said that Mr. Netanyahu had merely wanted to stay away to avoid any perceived interference in the American election.The rationale echoed the one given by Mr. Obama a year ago when he declined to invite Mr. Netanyahu to the White House while the prime minister was in Washington to address Aipac and speak to Congress to denounce the Iran agreement. That visit came a few weeks before Mr. Netanyahu faced re-election.Mr. Netanyahu, who now plans to address the conference via satellite, was also concerned about meeting with the president before the two nations have ironed out differences over the size of a new 10-year American military aid package, officials said.The latest tension unfolded just as Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was to travel to Israel and the Palestinian territories for meetings with Mr. Netanyahu and Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian Authority president. The prime ministers office said Mr. Netanyahu looked forward to the visit.
Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Jerusalem.
A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 2016, on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Netanyahu Calls Off Visit, and Fingers Point.


