Facebook IPO: who gets what
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2012/may/18/facebook-ipo-who-gets-what
The worlds largest technology IPO is providing not just fees for bankers but fodder for comics. Its great — now you can lose all your money in the same place you lost all your time, quipped late night comic Jimmy Fallon on the NBC network this week. With Facebooks share price expected by many to crash back down to earth within weeks or even days, the only people guaranteed not to rue their investment are those who bought in while the company was privately held. We list Facebooks early backers are a potent mix of Silicon Valley insiders, Russian oligarchs, Wall Street financiers – and a pop star called Bono. The insiders – directors and board members past and present Mark Zuckerberg. Cash raised from selling into the IPO: $1.15bn. Paper value on Friday yesterday morning at $38 a share: $19.1bn. Zuckerberg is now a paper billionaire many times over and on Friday morning was level-pegging with financier George Soros on the Forbes rich list. Edward Zuckerberg. Paper value $76m, number of shares sold undisclosed. He never exercised his option to buy 2m shares, but in December 2009 the company allotted them anyway. Sheryl Sandberg. Not selling in the IPO. Paper value on Friday morning: $72.2m. Facebooks chief operating officer and self-described grownup in the room joined from Google in March 2008 when Facebook had 70 million users. She has steered it steadily to 900 million users and Americas second largest initial public offering. Marc Andreessen, paper value $251m, number of shares sold: undisclosed A technology legend, Andreessen helped inflate the first tech bubble by co-founding Netscape Communications. The company behind the first big internet browser raised millions from its 1995 IPO before Microsoft developed a rival product that killed it off. Peter Thiel. Cash from IPO: $640m. Paper value on Friday morning: $1.059bn. Silicon Valley legend and PayPal co-founder. He is on Facebooks board and was an early investor. Dustin Moskovitz, not selling in IPO, paper value on Friday morning: $5.1bn Facebooks co-founder left in 2008 to form a new software company called Asana. Sean Parker. Not selling in IPO. Paper value on Friday morning: $2.65bn. Almost as famous for co-founding Napster, the music sharing site that changed the face of the internet, as he is for his involvement in Facebook. Parker was the firms first president and an early mentor and fundraiser for Zuckerberg. He sold in previous rounds but is n Eduardo Saverin. Estimated net worth $2.7bn. Saverin owned a third of the company he co-founded with Zuckerberg before being squeezed out and seeing his holding diluted to 5%. Having relocated to Singapore and given up his US citizenship to avoid paying tax, he will save an estimated $39m from his Facebook windfall. Jim Breyer and Accel Partners, cash from IPO $1.9bn, paper value on Friday morning: $5.8bn The principal at venture capital firm Accel partners, Breyer sits on the Facebook board. Accel invested in 2005, reportedly spending just $12.2m. Early backers DST Global Limited. Cash from IPO: $1.7bn. Paper value yesterday morning: $3.3bn. Yuri Milners DST Global has been the main conduit for Russian investment. His own backers include steel tycoon Alisher Usmanov. Goldman Sachs. Cash from IPO: $1.1bn. Paper value yesterday morning: $1.4bn. Goldman Sachs sheltered Facebook from scrutiny by creating a special purpose vehicle to offer shares to its wealthy clients under one name. This prevented Facebook from falling foul of rules requiring companies with more than 500 shareholders to share the same information as publicly owned groups. Elevation Partners. Cash from IPO: $176m. Paper value yesterday morning: $1.4bn. Bono is a lead investor in Elevation and has been keen to stress any IPO winnings will be widely distributed. Mail.ru Group, cash from IPO: $745m, paper value on Friday morning: $1.4bn A listed internet company used as a second investment vehicle by Yuri Milner and his Russian oligarch contacts. Mark Pincus. Cash from IPO: $38.4m. Paper value yesterday morning: $163.6m. The co-founder of online games group Zynga, whose Farmville and Mafia Wars games are played mostly on Facebook, will now owe more than one fortune to Zuckerberg. Tiger Global Management, cash from IPO $889m, paper value on Friday morning: $1.2bn Scenting a killing, the New York hedge fund run by 36 year old Chase Coleman increased the number of shares it was planning to sell from 3m to 23m on Wednesday. Li Ka-Shing. Paper value $780m, number of shares sold undisclosed. Hong Kong ports, telecoms and property tycoon spent $120m on shares in 2007 and 2008, he helped push Facebooks valuation up to $15bn. Missed the boat Washington Post chief executive Donald Graham will be keeping his bunting in storage. Graham has been a mentor to Zuckerberg since they met in 2005 and joined Facebooks board in 2009, but passed on the chance to buy into the company during its early funding rounds. He has an option on 1m sharesbut they were not released to him in time for the IPO. Fellow board member Reed Hastings, chief executive of Netflix, has 20,000 unreleased shares but like Graham never dared to take a punt with his own cash. Zuckerbergs Harvard roommate Joe Green was one of the first to walk away from the company. He helped set up the networks predecessor FaceMash but decided to continue his studies instead of following his friend to California. Google, Yahoo! and US media giant Viacom were among the companies that failed to persuade Zuckerberg to sell. Even the $15bn offered by Microsoft in 2007 was rebuffed. The software giant does, however, have a small stake, worth a tidy $997m at the opening price.
