John Colapinto Revives the Male-Centric Literary Sex Novel - 

Mens Style|John Colapinto Revives the Male-Centric Literary Sex Novel
John Colapinto Revives the Male-Centric Literary Sex Novel
John Colapintos new book, Undone, is seemingly too dirty for American publishers.
There was a time when the great American male novelists took delight in writing about sex. Rebelling against a literary tradition that perhaps underestimated how much space animal urges take up in the male brain, many big hitters of the 20th century, like Norman Mailer, Vladimir Nabokov, Henry Miller, Philip Roth, John Updike and Saul Bellow, dived into the muck with the zeal of Rabelais or Cleland.Sex was freedom, sex was adventure, sex was a good time, sex was pain, sex was life. Masturbation, threesomes, pedophilia, extramarital flings, one-night romps: It was all up for grabs, and how they grabbed it.In these more tentative times, male literary novelists tend to shy away from such strong stuff. And when these creatures of the workshop do manage to summon up the courage to test their descriptive powers against the most basic of human drives and activities, it is often to chronicle male sexual hesitation, confusion or inadequacy.Swimming against the current, with a 400-page work of literary devilry called Undone, is John Colapinto, a 57-year-old staff writer for The New Yorker who wrote his graduate school thesis on Nabokov and published his first novel in 2001. When his agent, Lisa Bankoff of ICM Partners, began submitting the manuscript for his second novel in 2013, Mr. Colapinto expected several offers. Perhaps there would even be a bidding war. But according to the author, 41 publishers, including every major house in New York, turned it down. Continue reading the main story
It was both harrowing and horrible  and incredibly exhilarating, he said, sitting in a back booth of a restaurant a few blocks from his home on the Upper East Side.
For Mr. Colapinto, there was a perverse sense of pride: He had seemingly written a novel too dirty for American publishers.Too TrickyAn editor at Grove Atlantic, writing to the authors agent, called the manuscript gripping, only to add, There were worries that it might be a bit challenging to publish. An editor at Simon & Schuster said that although the novel was absorbing and perceptive, Its not a world or a story I want to live in and explore. An editor at Gallery Books put it like this: The subject matter is too tricky.
One of the protagonists of Undone, Dez, has a fetish for teenage girls. His latest catch, or victim, is a 17-year-old high school student named Chloe. Driven by envy and greed, Dez hatches a wicked scheme: Chloe will pose as the long-lost daughter of a morally upright best-selling author and seduce him, revealing him to be a fraud and hypocrite.In its intricate structure, Undone, which is being published this month by the independent press Soft Skull (and which came out last year in Mr. Colapintos native Canada), reads like a porny version of a Hitchcock story. As Booklist said in a starred review, Mr. Colapintos writing is over the top in its comic depravity.Virtually every page is saturated in this theme of male desire, Mr. Colapinto said.Perhaps that aspect, more than the plot elements, is what repelled so many publishers. After all, Chloe is 18 when she succeeds in her attempt to sleep with the man who mistakenly believes she is his daughter. If were on trial, no decency laws have yet been broken, said Dan Smetanka, the acquiring editor at Soft Skull.But by exploring heterosexual male lust, Mr. Colapinto has written the kind of novel that has gone way out of fashion. The classics of the genre  Portnoys Complaint (Roth), An American Dream (Mailer) and Couples (Updike), among them  are many decades old. Nicholson Baker is one of the few who has kept the lit-smut flame aglow. And those who venture into the territory, as Jonathan Franzen did, here and there, in his most recent novel, Purity, make easy marks for wags in search of laughs and online traffic.
Katie Roiphe lamented the inability of male novelists to reckon with lust in a 2009 essay in , and not much has changed in the years since. For the crew of writers that includes Dave Eggers, Benjamin Kunkel and Jonathan Safran Foer, she wrote, Innocence is more fashionable than virility, the cuddle preferable to sex.Publishers of literary fiction, perhaps afraid to alienate their biggest customers  women, who read more than men  arent exactly rushing to release the next male-written sexually provocative novel. That space would seem to belong to women: novels like Tampa, by Alissa Nutting, and Hausfrau, by Jill Alexander Essbaum, have garnered critical acclaim in recent years, while Fifty Shades of Grey, by E. L. James, has scooped up the sales.Many critics and civilian readers would say  and have said  good riddance to priapic literature. In a 1997 essay, ostensibly a review of the late-period Updike novel Toward the End of Time, David Foster Wallace slammed the previous generation of phallocrats for its sex-obsessed narcissism. He mocked the protagonist of the Updike book for giving voice to such pronouncements as I want women to be dirty and expressed disgust for the authors description of a 13-year-old girls breasts (shallow taut cones tipped with honeysuckle-berry nipples).What had once been an act of literary daring had grown stale, Wallace argued, and Updike was misguided in clinging to the bizarre adolescent idea that getting to have sex with whomever one wants is a cure for ontological despair.
Im InsaneMr. Colapinto said he had read the Wallace essay and largely agrees with it. But on the subject of the sex-drenched novels of Updike, Roth and the other bards of the male libido, he said, I couldnt deny that I had a lot of fun reading those books when I was younger. In his view, there was an overcorrection.Men  at least the men I knew  were still driven by all manner of unruly sexual impulse, however guiltily, he said. So I decided to address that in as confrontational a way as possible.
NYT Living Newsletter Get lifestyle news from the Style, Travel and Food sections, from the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for 's products and services.
Books and their authors are products of their time. One wonders if any sexually frank novel published today could rattle the culture in the way that Portnoys Complaint did back when books could go further than movies. At the same time, playing the role of a middle-aged male sexual provocateur in an era of safe spaces and trigger warnings is a risky proposition.Mr. Colapinto, who has a wife and a teenage son, travels in educated, liberal circles that have internalized several waves of feminism. His son has not read the entirety of Undone, he said, and his wife, who only recently did, had her concerns. (Im insane, Mr. Colapinto added, laughing.) But he set out to write a dangerous novel, he said, in the belief that inappropriate lust made for a worthwhile topic.Lorin Stein, the editor of The Paris Review, agreed. The literary journal has awarded this years Plimpton Prize to David Szalay, whose recent novella Youth Mr. Stein described as very much a celebration of male heterosexuality.I think its really important for men and women to write not just sexually explicit work, but arousing work, Mr. Stein said. Because thats a big part and a great part of our lives together. We shouldnt cede that territory to video.For all the unease it caused publishers, Undone may not have much to offer in the way of arousal. The dramatic scene between Chloe and the man she dupes into a faux-incestuous liaison lasts little more than a page, and the language throughout is curiously chaste. Roth, Mailer and Updike were far more graphic in their descriptions decades ago. So why not be explicit in 2016?I cant do it, Mr. Colapinto said. I cant go there. It shocks me when I see Updike do it. Sounding like someone who still wants to show his face in polite society, he added, I love the limitations that are imposed by an earlier era of writing.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Colapintos Complaint.


