Google's Jared Cohen discusses the digital future - live Q&A
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2013/apr/24/google-jared-cohen-digital-future
The live QA is now over. Read Jareds answers below Jared Cohen used to work at the US state department, where he was the official who sent an email to Twitter asking it to keep its service online while protests over the result of the 2009 Iranian election were breaking out. In his time there, he worked for both Condoleezza Rice and Hillary Clinton – one of the few people kept on during the change from Republican to Democrat control in 2008. In September 2010 he left the state department and a month later joined Google, where he is the director of Google Ideas, the companys own thinktank. As part of that role, he visited North Korea with Eric Schmidt, Googles executive chairman, earlier this year. Now he and Schmidt have written a book, The New Digital Age: Reshaping the Future of People, Nations and Businesses, which looks at how technologies are changing the way we live and the way we are ruled. Are you ready for a time with no alarm clock (instead, the scent of brewing coffee), automatically opening curtains, and a back massage by 2033?  Or, alternatively, do you agree with their statement that the impact of this data revolution will be to strip citizens of much of their control over their personal information in virtual space, and that will have significant consequences in the physical world? Or how about the problem some point to – as the book acknowledges – that You cannot storm an interior ministry by mobile phone. If people want change, they arent going to effect it by text message. And what about the disruptive effects of many people – or just a few people – getting access to the internet, and instant updates about whats happening? The effects of technology dont have to be positive; technology is neutral, and can be used for good or bad ends, and can have unintended consequences of great severity as well. You asked, Jared answered leehazelwood asked:   You wrote in November 2010 that: Governments will be caught off-guard when large numbers of their citizens, armed with virtually nothing but cellphones, take part in mini-rebellions that challenge their authority.  After the Arab spring and Syria, how else do you think technology will transform political change?  Jared Cohen responded: The lesson learned from the Arab spring is that in the future revolutions will be easier to start, but they will be harder to finish. The accelerated pace of movement making will create flash in a pan leaders, get lots of people into the streets, and even lead to more dictators being toppled. But when a dictator falls and the dust settles, technology cant replace the need for real leaders and functioning institutions, both of which take many years to emerge and evolve. Knowles2 asked:  Do you think the actions of Google and Twitter in working around governments internet control have increase the risk that we will see the balkanisation of the internet?  Would you support aiding citizens access to the internet, twitter and other social, if those groups were working against American or Western interests? In the book you talk about automated curtains opening, do you use any of the current home automation kits that are around, such as robotic lawn mowers/hoovers, Nest Thermostats in your home? Jared Cohen responded: Most of the automated gadgets we discuss are technologically possible today and some even exist in peoples homes. Our argument is that in the future, all of this gets more accessible and cheaper. While not everyone will have what we describe in the book, people all around the world will get a taste of what automation can do to improve efficiency hrwaldram asked:   Hi Jared, thanks for taking part in this QA. I read an extract from the book in Guardian weekend and the picture of the digital future projected is rather like an utopian image of self-service and gadgets to enhance daily tasks for those who can afford it rather than solve larger scale societal problems. However the image is quite similar to Jaron Laniers dystopian projection where he discusses similar themes about the loss of control over ones personal data and privacy. Do you think theres any possibility that a free internet and freely distributed information wont lead to a technology-controlled state (utopia or dystopia depending on how you look at it) where we are poorer physically but rich in technology? How do you square up your vision for the future with worries about the consequences of what you describe - what kind of consequences do you think these will be?  Jared Cohen responded: There is no country in the world that is worse off because of the arrival of the internet. Add 5 billion people to the online world and this only becomes more true. Technology helps address a lot of problems, but it is not a panacea. In the worlds autocracies, which we write about extensively, there will continue to be a cat and mouse game that plays out between connected citizens and connected regimes. BoLiting asked:  At the moment, Google Ideas seems to be very focused on collaborating with the state on issues such as illicit network tracking. Given your focus on things previously only combatted by the state, what role do you think other corporations, particularly corporations with a heavy internet presence, will occupy in the future? Is the role of the state being co-opted by corporate power?  Jared Cohen responded: Google Ideas works with governments, NGOs, academics, local experts, and other companies. With 5 billion new people coming online, every challenge in the world is relevant to the tech sector. And there are many challenges -- particularly those that relate to conflict, instability, and repression -- that dont fall perfectly in pre-existing boxes of core business, philanthropy, or public policy. That is why we created Google Ideas, to address these challenges that will confront our future users. You can learn more at google.com/ideas revrob asked:  With regard to the EU ePrivacy Directive (implemented in UK law by Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 as amended May 2011 by the Monetary Penalty Regulations), how do Google in Europe go about obtaining the prior explicit informed consent of both the sender AND recipient of an email, before you intercept the email in transmission, scan the content, and use the results for delivering targeted advertising as part of the gmail service? I receive lots of emails from gmail users, and no one has EVER sought my consent to the content being scanned for purely commercial advertising purposes by Google. Thanks.  Jared Cohen responded: I wont speak for Google specifically, but in our book we talk about the future of privacy and security in depth. When we set out to write The New Digital Age, we wanted to look at the issue of privacy and security everywhere, including places like Saudi Arabia, China, Venezuela, etc. In doing so, it led us to a few specific conclusions about this important issue:1) Privacy and security are the ultimate shared responsibility and everyone, including governments, companies, and citizens have an important role to play2) The importance of human judgment does not evaporate in the future and as connected individuals, we will have to exercise sound judgment about what we choose to share or not share about ourselves3) Like all things, addressing privacy and security is also relevant to the future of education. Think about how early and fast young kids are coming online. Whether you are a parent in London or a parent in Islamabad, talking to your children early about the importance of online privacy and security will be one of the most important actions one can take. We write in the book that in many societies, parents will talk to their kids about these issues years before they talk to them about the birds and the bees. jasper13 asked:  Rates of murder and violent crime have fallen more rapidly in the UK in the past decade than many other countries in western Europe, researchers say. The UK Peace Index, from the Institute for Economics and Peace, found UK homicides per 100,000 people had fallen from 1.99 in 2003, to one in 2012. What role has the internet, and possibly the gaming industry, had to play in these statistics?  Jared Cohen responded: Very interesting question and interesting observation. I cant speak to the specific crime trends in Europe because I am not an expert. But I have thought about this in other contexts. For people involved in pre-meditated crimes, whether it is terrorism or robbery or something else, their use of technology means that they leave a digital trail and the room for error goes up dramatically. In the future it will be easier for violent people to make mistakes and get caught before they commit their crimes. Sahshank asked:  Do you think - we can really reach to singularity where a chip can be inserted in human to manage/process memory and communicate to others ie replace smartphone, smart watch, Google Glass, smart health monitoring devices, iTablets, remote controls to one single chip inside body?  Jared Cohen responded: It is difficult to predict technology more than 10 years out with any certitude, but what I observe is that change and innovation happens earlier and faster than we expect. We are constantly surprised at what technology can do. That being said, there is a limit to how much of our lives will be taken over by computers. In the future, human beings and computers will split duties according to what they are both good at (eg computers for needle in a haystack problems and humans for judgment) ghostinthemachine asked:  Do you think its a strange co-incidence that the internet is now controlled by American monopolies like Google (search), Paypal/Visa/MasterCard (payments), Facebook (social media), in a free market monopolies are a bad thing, do you believe in a free market ?  Jared Cohen responded: I dont accept the premise of your question. What I will say is that 57 percent of the worlds population lives under autocratic regimes and most of the worlds technological infrastructure has not yet been built. For the vast majority of states who are coming online, they will have two options: open or closed. Yes, there are only so many countries in the world who have companies that build the infrastructure, but ultimately we should all want a single Internet that is not balkanized, not restricted, and open to everyone. modelportfolio2003 asked:  1. Do you believe the Chinese Communist Party is truly capable of embracing change in how much information its citizens are permitted and if not, what is the best way its citizens can change the type of emasculating censorship that stifles free thought and appears to create a state that conducts malicious cyber-spying both inside and outside China? 2. I consider wearable computers to be the next big thing, whether they work in conjunction with the smartphone in your pocket or as a free standing device. We know that Google Glass alpha/beta product performs today many of the functions that can be done on your smartphone but in a heads-up display: voice activated activities such as directions/maps, video, photo, scrolling messages or search pages, etc. Where do you believe the best use cases will be for Glass and what do you hope developers will create in the next say 12 months prior to a wider consumer launch?  Jared Cohen responded: The big challenge that China will have is the following: 600 million people in China are connected to the Internet. 700 million Chinese will connect in the next decade and they are mostly rural, ethnically and religiously diverse, and impoverished. This massive wave of virtual urbanization will create unprecedented tensions in the Chinese system that will challenge the governments current censorship tactics. 700 million new internet users in China means 700 million new voices, new opinions, new witnesses to take photos of corruption and human rights violations. Rural China has never before in history had this kind of capability placed into the hands of its people. Teresa Lau asked:  Why 2033? Will it really take that long? In 10 years or even 5 years, alot can be changed?  How do you think this time scale will change from country to country? Jared Cohen responded: We chose to look at the one decade horizon in part because we felt that 10 years is just about as far as one can predict what will technologically happen with any degree of real accuracy. So if we were drawing conclusions about technologys impact on geopolitics, we wanted to stay within the margin of error for what that technology would look like. siforcat asked:  Is it true that if you type Google into Google you can break the internet?  Jared Cohen responded: No, it is not. Igstar asked:  What is the most bonkers idea anyone has suggested?  Jared Cohen responded: Ive learned to accept that no idea is too bonkers, but I think an elevator to space is pretty ambitious! undersinged asked:  The very internet-savvy government of Estonia has created a model of online government in which a individuals personal data belongs very much to themselves, and business and government agencies have to obtain permission to obtain access to subsets of that data. It puts the citizen in control, while allowing the efficiencies of connected data. It seems to work very well. If it catches on in other countries, what will this do to the forecast that the impact of this data revolution will be to strip citizens of much of their control over their personal information in virtual space, and that will have significant consequences in the physical world?  Jared Cohen responded: Estonia is an extraordinary case study for how the notion of power will change in the future. Sweden, as well. In the future, there will be states like Estonia and Sweden who have small militaries, tiny populations, smaller economies, and no seat on the UN Security Council. So by all accounts they are not major powers in the physical world, although they are important members of the International system. But in cyberspace, they will punch way above their eight as cyberpowers. DJKM asked:  In the Magic Faraway Tree (published in 1943), Moon-face (I think, perhaps it was the Saucepan Man) gave the children something called google buns. A coincidence?  Jared Cohen responded: A funny coincidence and a great find. Given this was written in 1943, maybe you could tell me what google buns are? FerventPixel asked:  How do you see the future in terms of personal data - its collection, use, and who should control and regulate this on behalf of internet users?  Jared Cohen responded: There are some nuanced differences between how European and the US government think about certain kinds of data, such as biometric. In Europe it is more regulated. But there is a bigger question here. The majority of the worlds countries are described by Freedom House as autocratic. As their populations come online, it is unlikely that the citizens will find much protection from their governments. This means we have to fight hard to help safeguard their privacy and security.
