Guantánamo detainee files complaint about UK security services
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/sep/25/guantanamo-detainee-complaint-uk-security-services
The last British resident detained in Guantánamo Bay has filed a complaint about the intelligence services with the UKs most secret court. Lawyers for Shaker Aamer have lodged a detailed submission at the investigatory powers tribunal (IPT) in London, alleging that he is being prevented from being released due to defamatory statements. The IPT, most of whose cases are heard in closed session and without notification, deals with complaints about MI5, MI6, the monitoring service GCHQ and misuse of surveillance powers by other public authorities. Aamer, 44, is a Saudi Arabian citizen but his wife is British. She and their children live in south London. He was arrested by American forces in Afghanistan in 2001 and flown secretly to the US-run detention camp in Cuba the following year. Aamer alleges that he has been subjected to torture. He has never been charged or faced trial. The claim to the IPT states: The actions of the [UK] security services have prevented [his] release due to defamatory statements that have no basis in honest fact. Aamers complaint also accuses the UK security services of interrogating him at Bagram prison in Afghanistan despite the fact that they knew that [he] was being abused, and actively sanctioned or encouraged [his] illegal transfer from Afghanistan to Guantánamo Bay. Lawyers for the human rights group Reprieve have lodged the complaint at the IPT on behalf of Aamer. They say that he has twice been cleared for release by the US government. David Cameron has asked the US president, Barack Obama, that he be returned home to London. Reprieves legal director, Kat Craig, said: The US has cleared Shaker, and the British government wants him home – so why is he still there? All the evidence points to briefing against him by the UK intelligence services, who are terrified that his release will allow him to speak freely about the part they played in his torture and rendition. In effect, our spies are undermining the aims of our democratically elected government. The IPT will be worthless if it cannot put an end to this scandal. The IPT points out that it is not obliged by statute to report on its activities but the practice has been to publish its statistics. Its long-serving chairman, Lord Justice Mummery, retired from the IPT this month. A few cases have been heard partially in open court. Reports are published on some complaints.
