Guardian Weekly Letters, 26 July 2013
https://www.theguardian.com/global/2013/jul/23/gw-letters-letters
The politics of Islam The answer to the question, Can political Islam ever work? (12 July) is an unequivocal no: the very idea of religious democracy is an oxymoron. No religion – Islam, Christianity or any other – can be the basis for democratic government. Religions are based on faith; government has to be based on reason. Islam and Christianity are authoritarian and sectarian; they divide, they do not unite. This does not mean individual Muslims or Christians cannot group together through political parties with common aims to form democratic governments but they will only work within constitutions that provide for human rights as contained in the secular Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Islamist attempts to impose sharia law and Christian fundamentalist attempts to impose their dogma must be resisted; there has to be freedom from religion as well as freedom of religion. Democratic government has to come from a consensus of all a nations citizens, men and women of all faiths and of no faith. This does not mean majoritarianism, the rule of the majority over the rest; minority and individual rights have to be protected and respected for all a nations citizens. A truly democratic nation requires a balance between individual rights and societal needs, with freedom of speech an essential factor, including the right to denigrate, to shock and to offend any ideas, political or religious, so long as they do not preach hatred or violence. If democracy is to work in Egypt, the Islamist-drafted constitution must be revised to include the foregoing tenets.Cy ChadleyEscondido, California, US • I was shocked by your front-page headline and for that matter I thought Jonathan Freedlands accompanying article fell below the standard of analysis I have learnt to expect from him. It has taken hundreds of years for Britain to evolve from the feudal system to a form of constitutional monarchy. During this time we have ceased burning witches, having public executions or having the death penalty. We are developing justice – in which democracy is mixed with hierarchy – still more readily accessible to the rich than the poor. Rather gradually we have attained education for all. We have a National Health Service. Over the centuries we have fought for universal suffrage – but we could still learn from Turkey when it comes to the equality of women. There have been wars, massacres; passionate debate to rid ourselves of slavery. Just as Freedland tells us that the US provides the Egyptian military with $1.3bn, we have a government that, proud of its work this year in generating an arms trade treaty, now boasts of a glamorous September arms fair in London to which all are invited to buy weapons. Would we do anything for money? People in Northern lreland still enjoy killing each other. There is a long way to go, it will take decades; we are still striving.Alec GainesEdinburgh, UK • I am not clear what you mean by political and Islam. Any system of government is politics and in most Islamic countries, from Indonesia to Saudi Arabia, it works. I suspect Freedland means democratic politics. This is held up as bring the zenith of political evolution. If the US is its greatest example then God help us. In almost every way, America is a disaster. And yes democratic Islam does work in a number of states including Indonesia and Malaysia. Many Islamic states are autocracies but so were many European states a century ago. What does that prove?George MalyniczChelmsford, UK • The problem with religious democracies, be they Christian, Islamist, capitalist or communist, is that there is a prior idea – God, money or class- which trumps human rights. A functional democracy is secular and requires an inviolate constitution, one you cannot go behind, to protect the rights of the minority. Otherwise, there will be repression and corruption on the one hand and revolt on the other. This was the gift to the world of those who drafted the constitution of the United States in the 1780s.Robert ThalerNew Hamburg, Ontario, Canada • Considering political Christianity didnt exactly promote universal contentment back in the good old medieval days, I am not holding my breath.Robin HornbyCalgary, Alberta, Canada • Can political Islam ever work? brought to mind Jesuss Sermon on the Mount, concerning hypocrites, eyes, motes and beams. I look forward to the GW headline Can capitalist democracy ever work?Colin RoyleOutremont, Quebec, Canada Sympathy for Snowden I take Peter Beaumonts point that it is not ideal for transparency advocates like Edward Snowden to praise the record of countries like Russia and leaders like Putin (Snowden wrong to embrace Putin, 19 July). But to be consistent, he surely must also condemn those ransom hostages who convert to Islam and criticise the west in order to escape. Also in the same situation were the US servicemen captured by North Koreans and Chinese back in the day, who consented to being filmed condemning US imperialism in order to escape. Snowden is doing the same. He will be looking around his corridor in the airport, wondering whether his life might be all downhill from here. Although his is not being tortured (yet), nevertheless I forgive him and wish him all the best.S W DaveyTorrens, ACT, Australia Remember the Monroe Doctrine? The Monroe Doctrine of 1823 repudiated interference in the Americas by outside imperialists (When will they ever learn?, 12 July). Unfortunately, the US has overlooked the possibility that this principle might apply to the other Americas. One example will suffice to illustrate this, namely, the USs undermining of the democratically elected government of Chile in 1973. US citizens should ask themselves why they fought their war of independence, and if the answer might also apply to the other Americas.Derek WilliamsDonvale, Victoria, Australia Portugals people problem The fall in the birthrate in European countries, which may lead to the populations of some falling, is often described as though it is a disaster, and this is what Anthony Faiolas article on Portugal does (Portugal suffers as birthrate plummets, 5 July). The problem is that there will be a growing percentage of elderly people to be supported by a young working population, according to this line of reasoning. Portugal has an unemployment rate of 18%. Most other European countries suffer from high unemployment rates, particularly among young people. As long as this continues, not only will the young unemployed be in no position to support the elderly financially, but they will need support themselves. Trying to encourage people to have more children will only make things worse. A fall in population should be grasped as an opportunity: it is a chance to counter urban sprawl, cut the production of greenhouse gases by reducing demand for road vehicles and consumer goods whose production pollutes air and land, ease the problem of responding to the threat of rising sea levels, ensure adequate water supplies, and protect the natural environment. If a labour shortage eventually results, it may also allow workers to press for improved wages and secure a redistribution of wealth, in a system in which the few prosper at the expense of the many when there is a plentiful supply of labour. In short, many of the ills of the modern world might be countered more effectively with a falling population than one that is growing and putting an ever-increasing strain on the environment.John GeeSingapore Briefly • Over half of the 37 thoughts on turning 37 (12 July) that Sophie Heawood listed were summed up by Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore 100 years ago when he turned 50: Youth is a horse and maturity a charioteer. Indeed, Heawood herself uses a similar metaphor when she advises us to stop blaming our parents and says, Youre a planet now, not a satellite.Richard OrlandoMontreal, Canada • Surely its no surprise that the wine experts cannot tell good wine from bad (July 5). I have always understood that wine critics habitually write, as their aficionados speak, nonsense whose meaning, if any, is usually incomprehensible. From an industry willing to accept that and treat it seriously, could normal standards of product judgment be expected? The whole thing is a citadel of baloney.Boyce RichardsonMontreal, Canada • On 15 July my credit card company called to tell me that my account had been blocked because of a recent payment to The Guardian Weekly (28 June). It was for renewal of my subscription, which I confirmed. The block was removed. I suppose that anyone having any contact with the Guardian is now in the US governments Prism or whatever they call it because it published the Snowden secrets.Aaron M FineSwarthmore, Pennsylvania, US • Why does Starbucks want to continue running at a loss in the UK (28 June)? And anyway cant auditors clearly see whats going on in their books?Pat PinchbeckHalkidiki, Greece • Good for you, Kate, to hold that baby until after 14 July, an ominous date for Royals. The tumbrils came and got the Bourbons, but Windsors on polo ponies are harder to catch! William Emigh Victoria, British Columbia, Canada Please send letters to weekly.letters@theguardian.com
