Guardian Weekly Letters, 15 February 2013
https://www.theguardian.com/global/2013/feb/12/guardian-weekly-letters-15-february
Malis different meanings I appreciated Ian Birrells comment on Mali (How the west misread Mali, 1 February). It has disturbed me often, notably during the Congo wars, how little attention English-language media pay to events in French-speaking countries, and how hard it is for them to interpret news correctly once they do. Were long overdue combating this limitation. I think western school systems underestimate the ability of their pupils to learn a foreign language. The rest of the world, which in general does teach more than one language to its young, will continue to have an advantage over us English-speakers, and such failures as now in Mali will continue to be hard to cure.Isabel Best Belmont, Massachusetts, US • François Hollande was received as the triumphant liberator of Timbuktu. He would better serve France and the world by ensuring freedom and security in the banlieues.Miriam Richter Cohen Whitefish Bay, Wisconsin, US Searching for the answers Leave it to the Guardian Weekly to give two sides of a story. In Gary Younges essay (We must care about contempt for public, 1 February), he shows how duplicity and contempt for the public so permeates our culture that we are being bewitched or, worse, left ignorant of the truth. In the opposite corner is Tim Adamss visit to the whiz-kids at Google (What is the future of search?) who promise that in the future we will be implanted with nano search engines whereby if you think about a fact, it will just tell you the [presumably correct] answer. Meanwhile, circa 2013 Google already allows anyone with a computer to view answers from all sides of a question, which sort of forestalls what Younge calls societys deception, unless youre an idiot or in too much of a hurry and will accept the first hit that pops up.Richard Orlando Montreal, Quebec, Canada • Search engines such as Google suffer limitations by virtue of their literal modality, creating word-based and word-bound associations. Discrete units (words) are both its strength and weakness. Logical pathways and literal connections foster homogeneity: a facile and vast but finite cookie cutter. The Yossarian Lives! engine promises an alternative: a photo-based engine linking image to image with interactive discretion built in. It claims a metaphoric mode, but of what sort or whose? Can it follow oblique pathways? I long for the opening of such other modes of thought: metaphoric, metonymic, symbolic, allegoric, ironic, schematic, spatial, phonic. Adams is right to lament the loss of a questing purpose, something latent in the ultimate Latin root of the word search: (oddly enough) derived from circu(m), around, as in going round and round in circles. A better term might be gyre – the primordial, endless spiral. What grabs me most is the mode of the question and the fecundity of the questioning process itself rather than any answer. Answers of course are ephemeral by nature, expedient delusions. Give us merry, shifty, sassy and dissolute algorithms.R M Fransson Denver, Colorado US Then and now in Zimbabwe It seems that Jonathan Steele (There is finally good news from Zimbabwe, 1 February) is living in cloud cuckoo land. He appears to have lost sight of the fact that during the late 1960s and throughout the 1970s, Rhodesia, as it was still named then, was virtually the bread basket of central Africa. Maize was sold to the surrounding countries, which were unable to feed themselves. On one famous occasion, Rhodesian butter was unwrapped at the Zambian border and re-wrapped in plain wrappers, before being exported. Now the situation is different. Zimbabwe cannot even feed its own people.Michael Scarr Old Bar, NSW, Australia Importance of perspective Gilles van Kotes diary report on Manilas waste scavengers (Manilas waste scavengers have been integrated into the recycling chain, 1 February) illustrates how a modern progressive cause – the need to save the environment – can sometimes overshadow another progressive cause – the need to eliminate mass poverty and exploitation. Unfortunately, the article is tendentious in favouring the former over the latter in its emphasis. While the report does outline the poverty of the scavengers it fails to develop this, instead focusing on the way these scavengers have been co-opted, with some marginal improvements in their living standards, into a private enterprise scheme to enhance the environment. The poverty of the scavengers is greatly understated. My wife and I saw the appalling conditions in which these scavengers lived in 1988 when we went to Manilas Smoky Mountain – a gigantic pile of refuse taking its name from the spontaneous combustion that characterised its appearance. It was hell for the scavengers – mostly rural peasantry driven off the land by exploitation and rural poverty. Their anger and resentment were palpable. At the time, government forces were making periodic raids on the mountain, seeking out guerrillas belonging to the New Peoples Army then engaged in armed struggle against mass poverty. It was an appalling spectacle of obscene poverty against a background of filth and degradation. Reading between the lines of the article it is clear that similar conditions prevail today. With its perspective, the article gives too much weight to the environmental dimension of the scheme and too little to its impact on living conditions for the scavengers. Terry Hewton Henley Beach South, Adelaide, Australia Briefly • I applaud Claire Joness list of Guardian writers who are her bygone heroes (Good to meet you, 18 January). It impelled me to pay tribute to other past masters at the Guardian who evoke fond memories of their lively minds and articulate contributions: James Cameron on India, Peter Jenkins on Europe, Robert Lacville on Bamako, Norman Shrapnel on parliament and Ralph Whitlock on Wessex. Today that word-wizard of Wenlock, Paul Evans, continues, for me, the Guardians best traditions of outstanding journalism.Pamela Solomos Silver Spring, Maryland, US • Ontarios first woman premier is gay (1 February). Being gay is not the point. Surely the headline news is that about 88% of Canadians now have women as their provincial/territorial leaders. Ruth Diamant Victoria, British Columbia, Canada • When I initially read Jason Burkes article Why al-Qaida is a spent force (1 February), which reported that David Cameron warns we face a large and existential terrorist threat from a group of extremists based in different parts of the world who want to do the biggest possible amount of damage to our interests and way of life, I immediately thought he was referring to the Wall Street Banksters too big to jail and their acolytes around the world. Given they are still in positions of power, the answer to Burkes question – whether we were more frightened then, or now – is now. Those responsible for the last fiscal black hole are as close to posing an existential threat as they have ever been.Dan Maitland Guelph, Ontario, Canada • Matthias Tomczak is correct (Letters, 1 February) that China was far in advance in technology, weapons, and ship-building long before European explorers began their state-sponsored invasions. The greatest difference between the Chinese voyages and those by Europeans was that the Chinese never established settlements, let alone set up colonies; nor did they enslave, torture, murder, burn and loot. What a pity those benign Chinese visits were not continued. How different history might have been if Europeans, arriving in Africa and the Americas, had been met with the firepower of weapons gained from the Chinese? What regimes might be in power today in both Africa and the Americas?Jim Burns Jesmond, NSW, Australia • Please send letters to weekly.letters@theguardian.com including a full postal address and a reference to the article. We may edit letters.
