Supreme court changes fair comment defence in libel cases
https://www.theguardian.com/law/2010/dec/01/supreme-court-fair-comment-libel-defence-change
The supreme court has changed a key test for defending libel cases, in another significant step by the judiciary to weigh into the highly political debate about libel reform. In a unanimous decision on the defence of fair comment – a Victorian rule originally designed to protect art critics from being sued for libel – the court said the law should be updated to make it more simple, and to take account of changes in technology and the modern media. The defence of fair comment should be renamed honest comment, said Lord Phillips, the president of the supreme court. Today the internet has made it possible for the man in the street to make public comment about others in a manner that did not exist when the principles of the law of fair comment were developed, he added. Millions take advantage of that opportunity. Phillips, who described the issue as a storm in a teacup, said the defence of fair comment was one of the most difficult areas of the law of defamation. The law on fair comment has been developed by judges in cases going back to the 19th century, and originated to protect art critics who were critical of books, plays and performances. But the rules determining when a defendant can invoke fair comment to protect themselves from libel have become increasingly complicated as judges have considered whether the defence could apply to a wider range of comment. The defence was a key issue in the case brought by science writer Simon Singh, after he was sued over comments in the Guardian about the British Chiropractic Association. Overturning high court judge Mr Justice Eadys decision that Singh could not use fair comment, the court of appeal ruled in April that judges should be slower to draw the line between fact and comment in contentious areas of journalism and debate. But todays decision by five members of the UKs highest court will have even further-reaching implications for the future of the law on libel. The defence is clearly going to feature more significantly now, said Sarah Webb, partner and head of media, libel and privacy at Russell Jones  Walker. Whilst the Singh case widened the understanding of what was comment rather than an assertion of fact, todays judgment states that the comment must now only explicitly or implicitly indicate at least in general terms the facts upon which it is based. It is clearly going to be easier for defendants to now rely on this defence although the supreme court have still said it needs further refinement by the Law Commission. The case was brought by a group of musicians called The Gillettes and Saturday Night at the Movies after a promoter posted a notice on its website stating it would no longer work with the group because the musicians were not professional enough. The musicians sued the company for libel, claiming that the notice on its website implied that they were unprofessional and unlikely to honour future bookings, damaging their reputation. The supreme court ruled that the company should be entitled to the defence of fair comment, because the statement posted on its website identified the facts on which the comment was based. The court also considered human rights protections for free speech under article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, stating that a defendant in libel cases could not be expected to prove whether a value judgment involved in a statement defended as fair comment, was true. A value judgment is not susceptible of proof so that a requirement to prove the truth of a value judgment is impossible to fulfil, and thus infringes article 10, said Lord Phillips. But the court stopped short of radical reforms to the law, by refraining from adopting a wholly objective test for fair comment. While the court agreed to a small bit of modernisation in stating that the defence should be renamed honest comment … the court did not accept suggestions that the defence should be expanded to embrace facts which were not known to the defendant, or even in existence when he made his comment, said Gill Phillips, head of legal for the Guardian, which was one of the media organisations that intervened in the case. Rather they suggested that the onus should be on a defendant to show that he subjectively believed that his comment was justified by the facts on which he based it.
