Today's media stories from the papers
https://www.theguardian.com/media/2014/jan/27/media-briefing-monday-27-january
Top eight stories on MediaGuardian     Stories based on Snowden's leaks raise questions about the D-notice system's usefulness, minutes of the committee's latest meeting say. Photograph: Uncredited/AP    D-notice system to be reviewed in wake of Edward Snowden revelations Inquiry into future of system that warns media not to publish stories leads to fears that compliance may become compulsory Sky to offer The Tunnel and Moone Boy episodes free on YouTube Move forms part of multimillion-pound push, including television campaign, aimed at enticing new users to its pay-TV services Andy Grays return wins mixed reception Andy Grays return to co-commentary for the first time since losing his Sky job after making off-camera sexist comments in 2011 earned BT Sport a mixed reception ProPublicas Richard Tofel: Our mission is to end abuses of power The president of the non-profit investigative journalism website on measuring impact, team work – and Edward Snowden The BBCs independence rests on being influenced by the public, not politicians John Tate: The corporation is a global news organisation which keeps open a vital space for spin-free news BBC boss in charge of scrapped DMI project left without a payoff John Linwood, the chief technology officer, exited six months ago after failure which cost licence fee payers nearly £100m Eurosport owner Discovery considering Premier League TV rights bid US media giant eyes UK market after fast-tracking its acquisition of a controlling stake in pan-European broadcaster Vines Colin Kroll: Six seconds just feels right As Twitters video app Vine turns one, co-founder Colin Kroll looks back at the first year Top comment on MediaGuardian Broadcastings poor ethnic mix has an impact on everyone Steve Hewlett: The lack of black and minority ethnic people must count as one of the industrys great moves backwards Todays headlines The Guardian D-notice panel faces review in response to NSA scandal. P4Praise for BBC and BT pension schemes. P24ProPublicas Richard Tofel: Our mission is to end abuses of power,. P32John Tate: The BBCs independence rests on being influenced by the public, not politicians. P33Steve Hewlett: Broadcastings poor ethnic mix has an impact on everyone P33 Daily Telegraph Second boss at the BBC probed over bullying claims. P13Premier League cracks down on pub TV sport. Business P3TV sports production company Sunset+Vine expands into Asia. Business P4 Financial Times Mobile ads drive solid Google growth. P26 The Times The Archers June Spencer wins BBC Audio Drama Awards lifetime achievement prize. P4Amazon unveils anticipatory shipping project. P11Second boss at the BBC probed over bullying claims. P16Web chiefs summoned by ministers over self-harm sites. P20Harry Shearer on Sky1s Nixons the One. Times2 P8-9 The Independent The Archers June Spencer wins BBC Audio Drama Awards lifetime achievement prize. P9Ian Burrell: Question mark over Telegraphs Jason Seiken. P31Newsnight airs report made by Vice Media. P31Russell Tovey on Sky Atlantics Looking. P40-41Apple loses smartphone ground in 12 key markets. P52 i Russell Tovey on Sky Atlantics Looking. P36-37Ian Burrell: Telegraphs Jason Seiken must reveal his digital strategy soon. P41Claire Beale;: New Amazon ploy: instant gratification. P41 Wall Street Journal Europe Barlcays may end sponsorship of Premier League. P17Apple needs China iPhone sales to shine. P18 Daily Mail Richard Kay: disgraced Frank Bough to appear in BBC2 documentary about breakfast TV. P31 Daily Express The Archers June Spencer wins BBC Audio Drama Awards lifetime achievement prize. P15Celebrity Big Brother coverage. P21 The Sun Celebrity Big Brother coverage. P11The Voice coverage. TV Biz P1The Jump coverage. TV Biz P2-3Splash! viewers outraged over judges Alzheimers comment. TV Biz P3 Daily Mirror Final Who Wants to be a Millionaire show filmed. P20 Daily Star Celebrity Big Brother coverage. P1,4-5  Go to MediaGuardian 
