Boot up: Google Mine, mobile app truths, seeking ET, and more
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/blog/2013/jun/25/apps-google-mine-et
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team Style v substance in mobile software  Mobile Opportunity Michael Mace has been user testing mobile apps:   The most common problem I saw in the tests was users struggling with mobile apps and websites that prioritized beauty over usability. Too often, we as an industry equate an app that looks simple with an app thats easy to use. Those are two entirely different things. Stripping all the text out of an app and hiding all of the buttons makes for a beautiful demo at TechCrunch, but a horrible user experience for people who are trying to get something done with an app.  Theres a free downloadable white paper too (though it demands details like name and email). What were the most ridiculous startup ideas that eventually became successful?  Quora Really nice set of answers from Michael Wolfe, pitching successful companies in the frame of whaaat?   Facebook - the world needs yet another Myspace or Friendster except several years late. Well only open it up to a few thousand overworked, anti-social, Ivy Leaguers. Everyone else will then join since Harvard students are so cool. Dropbox - we are going to build a file sharing and syncing solution when the market has a dozen of them that no one uses, supported by big companies like Microsoft. It will only do one thing well, and youll have to move all of your content to use it… iOS - a brand new operating system that doesnt run a single one of the millions of applications that have been developed for Mac OS, Windows, or Linux. Only Apple can build apps for it. It wont have cut and paste.  And many more, all just as good. Google Mine  Unofficial Google Blog  Google is preparing a new service thats called Google Mine. Its integrated with Google+ and its a way to keep track of the items you own or youd like to have and share some of them with your circles. Right now, the service is being tested internally at Google. Google Mine lets you share your belongings with your friends and keep up to date with what your friends are sharing. It enables you to control which of your Google+ Circles you share an item with. It also lets you rate and review the items, upload photos of them and share updates on the Google+ Stream where your friends get to see and comment on them.  Not only your virtual life, but your physical life too. Ambitious. Hunting for an E.T. castoff in a most terrestrial place  NYTimes.com  ALAMOGORDO, New Mexico — You are the worlds greatest video game maker, but suddenly you find yourself stuck with millions of cartridges of a game nobody wants. What do you do? You load the cartridges into trucks and bury them in the New Mexico desert. Atari did just that almost 30 years ago, or so the story goes. The truth lies beneath packed dirt and poured concrete in a sleeping landfill by the railroad tracks behind a McDonalds here, where this city of about 32,000, home to an Air Force base and the states Museum of Space History, dumped its garbage many years ago.  Is it a legend? Truth? Theyre going to dig to find out. Really. Apple wins suit against Samsung in Japan on screen effects  Businessweek  Apple won a patent lawsuit in Japan, as a Tokyo judge ruled that Samsung Electronics smartphones and a tablet computer infringed on its visual effects for touch panels.  The patent in question is the rubber-band visual effect. Yes, this stuff is still going on. Theres a similar case coming up in Australia. MySQL mistake is a wake-up call on open source ownership  InfoWorld  There was a moment of panic in the open source community this week when a developer on the MariaDB fork of MySQL discovered that Oracle had quietly changed the license on all the man pages for MySQL from GPL to a restrictive proprietary license two months earlier. Prompted by the bug report, Oracles staff quickly discovered that an error had been made in the build system and promised to immediately undo the change and restore the GPL to all of MySQL. Problem solved! All the same, the incident was a wake-up call to many.  (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.) Not just Instagram: the Windows Phone (and BlackBerry, Firefox OS) app problem  ITWriting Tim Anderson:   I like the Windows Phone OS and use one day to day. However it has become impossible to do my job in technical journalism without either an Apple iOS or Android device alongside it. The reason is that I review gadgets and find increasingly that they come with app support – but only for iOS or Android. The Fitbit exercise tracking gadget, for example. Or the Corsair Voyager Air wireless hard drive - almost inaccessible from Windows Phone (you can do it with a firmware update and DLNA). Or the Seagate Wireless Plus. Actually this one is better as it has a web UI, but no app.  Same problem with bank apps - and of course Instagram (still waiting there for third platform still support - while the other two get video). Whats the solution to this chicken/egg problem? Opening Pandoras Box  FOSSForce Internet music pioneer Dave Bean (ex-MusicMatch and others):   I am sympathetic to a big part of the problem here being the different royalties paid by online, offline, and Safe Harbor corporations. All Internet and almost all terrestrial radio stations around the world pay both a fee to songwriters and to song performers. Terrestrial broadcast radio in the United States has successfully lobbied Congress to be exempt from paying the performers of the music (Frank Sinatra used to complain bitterly about this). Pandora is now trying to claim that by having purchased the South Dakota terrestrial broadcast radio station they can pay that royalty without the performer fees paid by Internet Radio.  Music royalties in the US particularly are very strangely organised. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.) Privacy search engines see jump after NSA row  AFP  DuckDuckGo had been growing slowly in recent years, but its traffic charts showed a surge after the first news broke June 6 of the governments PRISM surveillance program. By 20 June, traffic had hit nearly three million queries, double the level of a year earlier. More than half of DuckDuckGo traffic comes from outside the United States, Weinberg said.This NSA story played into the trend of peoples fears about online tracking, said Weinberg.Weinberg said another factor is that Google results are being gamed by search engine spammers and other companies trying to rank their results higher. Dutch-based Ixquick, which also uses the name StartPage, said it too has seen a dramatic jump in usage after news of the PRISM data sharing program.  It would be educative to know how many people know of more than (or even) one alternative search engine to Google. (Thanks @EasilyLead for the link.) You can follow Guardian Technologys linkbucket on Pinboard To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service.
