Venezuela deadlock ends as opposition lawmakers barred by court step aside
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/jan/13/venezuela-opposition-national-assembly-deadlock-resign
Tensions have temporarily been defused in Venezuela’s bitter power struggle, after three opposition members of parliament who had been barred by the country’s supreme court stepped aside to break a deadlock between the government of Nicolás Maduro and the national assembly newly dominated by the opposition. “Sometimes you have to sacrifice some things to save others,” said opposition leader Henry Ramos Allup, in an uncharacteristically conciliatory tone, after accepting the three opposition members’ request to leave the legislature. Venezuela’s supreme court had barred three opposition legislators and one pro-government lawmaker from taking office pending an investigation into alleged voting irregularities in the 6 December legislative election that handed the opposition control of the National Assembly for the first time in 17 years of Venezuela’s socialist-oriented government.  But opposition leaders, claiming that the ruling was aimed at limiting their majority in the assembly, defied the court and swore in the three contested deputies all the same.  Upping the ante, the supreme court ruled this week that congressional decisions would be null until the swearing-in of the three was overturned. “We completely reject that ruling,” the letter from the three opposition deputies said. But they added that by bowing out, they could “help free parliament from the institutional ambush [the government] want to lead it into”. Government lawmakers cheered the turnaround by opposition leaders as a “victory for the people”.  “We face a new scenario now,” said leading pro-government deputy, and former assembly president, Diosdado Cabello. “Fortunately for the country [the opposition] backed off.”  Luis Vicente León, head of the Datanalisis polling firm, said the decision was “politically correct”.  “It’s a strategically correct decision which causes anger because it is unfair, but it opens the game that had no other way of being unblocked,” he wrote on his Twitter feed.  Venezuela’s political standoff pits the socialist government of President Maduro against a coalition of mostly centre-right parties known as MUD, which has said it would use its legislative majority to reverse some of the policies it says have driven Venezuela’s economy to the ground.  With the world’s largest oil reserves, Venezuela’s economy is facing meltdown as crude prices continue to plunge and internal price and exchange controls keep a chokehold on manufacturing. A deep recession and spiraling inflation fueled the discontent with Maduro and handed the opposition its December election victory.  With the deadlock in the assembly over, Maduro’s government is expected to present legislators with an emergency package to try to salvage the economy, although analysts doubt that it will be the kind of overhaul that the country needs.  Through its majority in the assembly, the opposition hopes to steer the country in a different direction and some parties in the opposition coalition have also said they would use their majority in congress to cut short Maduro’s term through a recall referendum. “The challenges that the opposition faces are complex and the game is just starting,” wrote León. “The difference from the past is that now (the opposition) is playing and not sitting on the bench.”  Maduro is due to address the assembly on Friday. 
