ABOARD THE JSTARS SURVEILLANCE PLANE OVER ALBANIA, June 12— Almost as soon as their battery of radar screens locked onto Kosovo shortly after dawn, it was obvious to everybody here that the Yugoslav forces were on the run.

The monitors told the story in Technicolor: a stream of magenta and yellow dots -- representing vehicles ranging from tractors and trucks to tanks -- inched along Highway 17 and Highway 11 through the Kosovo capital, Pristina, and north toward the province's border with the rest of Serbia, the main republic in Yugoslavia.

Both roads are NATO-approved retreat routes for the Yugoslav forces, but they had been almost empty just two days ago.

Today, as NATO troops moved into Kosovo for the first time, the team of Air Force and Army technicians watched the minute-by-minute progress of convoys that stretched as long as 20 miles.

''This is like day and night,'' said Indy, one of this flight's two senior directors, who like other crew members would identify himself only by his nickname. He studied some of the 18 computer screens on this rebuilt Boeing 707. ''If we had seen this the last time, we would have sent aircraft in immediately. It would have been a turkey shoot.''

This aging airplane carries the United States Air Force's newest and most advanced system for watching enemy troops from the air. The system has assumed a key role in picking targets and monitoring the peace agreement.

There are clear limits to how much can actually be seen from this distance. The radar system tries to distinguish between tanks and ordinary trucks, but its guesses are often incorrect.

The men and women in this plane are miles from the combat zone, generally out of range of missile attacks and protected by a shield of fighter jets. Yet as they crouched before their screens in the darkened fuselage, they followed the humblest movement on the ground with an almost haunting degree of intimacy.

They scrutinized a small caravan of trucks that had wandered off the main highway. They zoomed in on the areas where Serbian forces are allowed to congregate before leaving. They watched as NATO vehicles moved north from neighboring Macedonia.

''This is information warfare,'' said Kujo, the flight's other senior director. ''The key to success for troops on the ground has always been the ability to look over the next hill, and this takes it to a new level.''

Though used experimentally during the Persian Gulf war, the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar Systems are still so new that the Air Force and Army have only four of them worldwide -- two of them now in the Balkans.

Unlike its better-known predecessor, the Airborne Warning and Control System, or Awacs, this system was designed to scrutinize events on the ground over a wide geographic area.

The radar aboard this plane, housed in a canoe-shaped hull on the bottom of the fuselage, can see all of Kosovo in one view. It can also zoom in on scores of small patches simultaneously, serving up images demanded by the on-board technicians as well as requests from commanders at the Combined Air Operations Center in Vicenza, Italy.

The Jstar planes fly some of the longest missions of any aircraft used in the Balkans. A typical flight lasts more than 17 hours, and the longest mission so far lasted 21 hours. All flights require two mid-air refuelings as well as back-up pilots and crew members. Takeoff is usually before dawn from Rhine-Main Air Force Base in Frankfurt. Given the preparation beforehand and the debriefings afterward, crew members routinely work 24 hours straight.

Once in position, they transmit not only images but analytical reports all day long. Ken, a burly technician sitting next to the senior leader, banged out hourly reports describing scores of activities along all the Serbs' approved ''egress routes.''

In the very rear of the plane, a small group of Army technicians ran their searches on behalf of ground forces in Macedonia. Specially-equipped Humvees allow Army units to receive the full stream of Jstar images and radar mapping and to convey information requests to the plane.

Though the dramatic movements back toward northern Yugoslavia were today's big news, much of the effort here was to spot unusual or quirky behavior that might be a tip-off to unexpected problems.

That was why Indy had locked the system onto a curious parade of trucks, nine big ones and six small ones, that were traveling well wide of the authorized road between Prizren and Pristina.

Though heading parallel to the approved road, it was wandering suspiciously. Indy instructed the system to take a close look every few seconds.

''It's easy to watch the main roads,'' said Indy. ''But really good surveillance, I think, comes from looking for things that don't seem quite right.''

Like many weapons in this war, the Jstar missions embody a curious blend of extremely advanced technology mounted on almost shockingly old equipment.

To save money, the Pentagon decided to build the Jstars surveillance system into 35-year-old Boeing 707's. This one, Kujo said, had been a cargo plane for the Australian airline Qantas.

Air Force officials say this decision made good sense, because the 707's remain reliable workhorses.

The system, including the plane, cost about $250 million, officials said, but one commander on the ground said, ''Buy a radar and get the plane for free.''

But the creakiness of this plane became apparent. Fumes, probably from the plane's overloaded air-conditioning system, required the entire crew to strap on oxygen masks twice today. To solve the problem, the aircraft commander shut off all extra electricity for the last hour of the flight.

''The real heroes in this are the maintenance guys,'' a crew member said.

Despite the headaches, the Jstar has become immensely popular with NATO commanders and even with fighter pilots who were once dubious about accepting guidance from it.

''When the war started, people didn't know quite what to do with us,'' said Indy. ''But after they started getting our flow of data, they wanted more and more sorties. The biggest problem now is that we can't fill all the demand.''

Photo: U.S. Army and Air Force technicians are watching Kosovo aboard Jstars radar planes, above, which can see, zoom in on and analyze events in all of the province in one view.