HOMEOWNERS who want to track the energy consumed by their appliances and electronic devices can turn to a new generation of compact digital power meters. The results may be surprising.

''My biggest oh-my-god moment was discovering that my cable box didn't use any less power, even after I turned it off,'' said Mike Morton, the owner of a solar-powered home near Honolulu. The reading was 15 watts when on and 14.9 watts when off.

Mr. Morton said he had taken power readings for ''almost everything in the house that has a two- or three-prong plug'' in the hope of keeping his home's energy consumption below the level produced by his photovoltaic panels.

Because of the high cost of electricity in California and some other states, a digital power meter may pay for itself in electricity savings. An older refrigerator may use so much electricity, for example, that it would be less expensive over time to replace it with a more efficient model.

The meters offer constant surveillance, measuring the power being consumed at the moment or over a period of time. A television, for example, might draw as much as 300 watts while turned on and between 5 to 15 watts while off. Brad Volin, the president of Electronic Education Devices, a Denver company that manufactures power meters, said that some appliance stores allowed customers to borrow a meter to compare the energy consumption of their appliances. ''Our software will show their usage and let them graph it out with a payback calculator'' to show long-term savings, he said.

Electronic Education Devices sells the Watts Up Pro, which can record power use over time; the data can be exported to a computer. It costs $130.95 at the company's Web site, www.doubleed.com. Another company, P3 International, based in New York, makes a smaller meter, the Kill A Watt, which costs $35 to $50; usage is indicated on a compact display. Information is at www.p3international.com. Peter Wayner

Photos: PLUG IT IN -- Kill A Watt from P3 International, top, shows power use on a compact display. The Watts Up Pro by Electronic Education Devices records use over time; its data can be exported.