'Please don't kill him,' plead family of Bali Nine member Myuran Sukumaran
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/feb/06/please-dont-kill-him-plead-family-of-bali-nine-member-myuran-sukumaran
  The family of the condemned drug trafficker Myuran Sukumaran publicly pleaded on Friday for his life, as well as that of fellow prisoner Andrew Chan, as the Australian embassy was given official word the pair would be executed this month. Sukumaran’s mother, Raji, stood outside Kerobokan prison on Friday with her daughter, Brintha. They had visited daily for almost a week, as hope for the two men peaked and troughed. “They have been rehabilitated, they have been doing a lot of things, they are good children, please don’t kill him,” pleaded Raji. Brintha Sukumaran said: “Please don’t kill my brother. Please, he is a good person, he is really rehabilitated. We love him so much, please don’t kill him, please.” She said Myuran was helping other prisoners, and had sold one of his paintings to pay for an operation for a woman with pancreatic cancer. “He is doing everything he can to help people inside and no one is listening to us, it’s not fair,” she said. “We don’t have much time and he is scared, I can see it in his eyes.” The Denpasar district court received and then appeared to be seriously considering an application for a second judicial review, but hopes were dashed when it was formally rejected on Wednesday afternoon. The two men are popular inside the prison. Guardian Australia spoke to numerous supporters of Sukumaran’s art studio and classes for fellow prisoners, and Chan’s work as a pastor. On Thursday an Indonesian inmate, Rico Richardo – who suffered a stroke and was cared for by Chan on the day Chan lost his clemency appeal – said he would take the Australian’s place. “If the honourable Bapak President insists on executing Andrew Chan, I Rico Richardo as Indonesia citizen am ready to replace Andrew Chan as the death row convict that will be executed,” he wrote in a letter to the Indonesian president, Joko Widodo. Armanantha Nassir, a spokesman for the Indonesian foreign minister, said notification was sent to the Australian embassy on Thursday “to notify that the execution will be held this month”.“We sent the notification after we were notified by the attorney general about the execution plan,” he said.  Earlier this week the Indonesian attorney general, HM Prasetyo, said all embassies of the 11 prisoners scheduled to be executed next had been informed but did not detail which. Tony Spontana, a spokesman for the attorney general, told Guardian Australia no new information would be publicly released on when or where the 11 people – spread across Indonesia’s prison system – would be put before a firing squad. The Australian prime minister, Tony Abbott, said on Friday he was “not especially optimistic” for the fate of Chan and Sukumaran, but said “even now we are doing what we can”. “We’ve been moving heaven and earth. We’ve been trying to do it behind the scenes because that’s the most effective way to help.” Sukumaran and Chan were sentenced to death for their parts in a 2005 attempt to smuggle more than 8kg of heroin. They were apprehended after information was given to Indonesian authorities by the Australian federal police. The barrister who represented Bali Nine member Scott Rush said on Friday the AFP had a duty to intervene on behalf of Chan and Sukumaran. Sukumaran and Chan have exhausted all possible legal recourses. Their legal team made a controversial application for the second judicial review of their case last Friday, but it was rejected. The constitutional court ruled prisoners could have more than one, but the supreme court disagreed. Prasetyo said there was no new evidence in the application but he would not intervene in the court process. Indonesia’s minister of law and human rights said a new regulation to be issued in a few months’ time would allow multiple judicial reviews but until then only one was permitted, including for Sukumaran and Chan. The Indonesian lawyer for the pair, Todung Mulya Lubis, told Guardian Australia the rejection of the second application “can be considered violation of the constitutional court decision”. “[The] constitutional court decision is final and binding, and every court should adhere to that decision. I regret the rejection and reserve a right to take any possible legal recourse available,” he said late Wednesday. On Thursday Sukumaran and Chan released a letter to Jokowi through the evangelist Matius Arif Mirjara, pleading for a moratorium on the death penalty. The letter said: “To government of Indonesia, we beg for moratorium so we can have chance to serve Indonesia and commit to bring more benefits on the rehabilitation process in prison. We believe in the Indonesian legal system that brings justice and humanity.”
