RBS boss due to collect bonus worth £700,000
https://www.theguardian.com/business/2013/mar/07/rbs-boss-due-bonus-700000
The Royal Bank of Scotland chief, Stephen Hester, is due to be handed a bonus worth £700,000 as the bailed-out bank grapples with a new outbreak of computer problems that have left customers demanding compensation. Almost 230,000 shares were scheduled to be released to Hester on Thursday as the final payment of the only bonus he has been awarded since taking the helm of the bank in 2008. The bonus was awarded to him in 2010 and, according to the banks annual report, the shares vest in two equal amounts on 7 March 2012 and 7 March 2013. The day of the vesting of the bonus coincided with a hardware fault that left NatWest customers unable to access their accounts between 9pm and 11pm on Wednesday evening – something that prompted threats by customers to leave the bank, after the second computer glitch in nine months. The banks IT meltdown last June forced Hester to waive his bonus for 2012, even before the Libor-rigging fine, which would have put him under pressure not take any payment. The bank insisted that the latest problem – which prompted fury on social networking sites such as Twitter – was not related to those in the summer. Any customer who was left out of pocket due to this outage should get in touch so we can put things right for them, the bank said as it apologised for the disruption. Among those customers to express frustration was Andrew Bissett, who tweeted: Disgraceful service. Am moving my banking to Santander! You cannot be trusted with our money!!!    @natwest_help Disgraceful service. Am moving my banking to Santander! You cannot be trusted with our money!!! Andrew Bissett (@andybissett1970) March 7, 2013    Sir Philip Hampton, the RBS chairman, was asked about the bonus now being paid to Hester on the day the £390m fine for rigging Libor was announced last month, and he made clear then that it would be awarded to the chief executive. The precise value of the 2010 bonus is linked to the RBS share price, which closed at 305p on Thursday. Hester was originally awarded more than 4.5m shares but as a result of a recapitalisation last year this has been adjusted to mean the portion he is due to receive is about 230,000. Hester, who has overseen a plan which has led to more than £900bn of assets being sold or run off in an effort to reduce the risks the bank is running since he took over from Fred Goodwin, also needs to sell 316 branches under the terms set out by European state aid rules. One approach for them is being put together by a number of big City investors, backed by some private equity firms, who are backing a vehicle that would be chaired by former Tesco executive Andy Higginson. Hesters latest bonus is also paying out as senior members of his management team are due to share in bonus windfalls of as much as £6m in May, from awards made to them three years ago. Hester, though, will miss out on £3m that he stood to receive from his share award, as the bank has failed to achieve the performance criteria attached to the bonus. His total pay package for 2012 has not yet been revealed and will be published in the banks annual report later this month. Last week RBS said that the restructuring plan Hester put in place had achieved enough to make a possible part privatisation achievable before the May 2015 general election. But Sir Mervyn King, the Bank of England governor, claimed on Monday that nothing had been achieved and that RBS should be split into a bad bank to hold the troublesome loans and a good bank that could start lending more.
