Sean O'Brien: How I fell under WH Auden's spell
https://www.theguardian.com/books/2015/oct/10/sean-obrien-how-wh-audens-spell-notes-from-underground
WH Auden concludes his great poem “In Praise of Limestone” (1948): “when I try to imagine a faultless love / Or the life to come, what I hear is the murmur / Of underground streams, what I see is a limestone landscape.” This geological attachment had a long history. As a boy, Auden (1907-73) had acquired books about mining and engineering. As well as being absorbed by the technicalities of the subject, he also viewed mining machinery and mining landscapes as having a magical or religious significance, and this sense of things remained with him for the rest of his life. On the wall of his workroom at Fire Island near New York, he displayed a map of Alston Moor in the north Pennines, and he was later to revisit the region. Many poets have a founding myth of place to animate and sustain their writing. Dante in exile had the city of Florence, Wordsworth had the Cumbrian lakes and Seamus Heaney had the bogland of rural County Derry. Auden’s myth was located among the fells and lead-mines. A Tyneside-born friend described the north Pennines, which are both close at hand and strangely far off, as “the Wild West”. The description was borne out in the summer of 1991 when Harry Collinson, chief planning officer for Derwentside, was shot dead by Albert Dryden as council staff and policemen approached with a bulldozer to knock down the bungalow that Dryden had illegally erected on land he owned near the defunct steel town of Consett. The raw and tragic violence of the confrontation gave it the aspect of a range war, waged in a place where feuds might linger. Not far away, Chopwell, “Little Moscow”, where Marx and Lenin Terrace can still be found, was the last place to give up during the 1926 general strike. Memories are long. Feuds were also of interest to Auden, whose early play Paid on Both Sides (1928) concerns a blood feud in the lead-mining landscape, waged between the Nower and Shaw families, drawing on Auden’s love of Icelandic sagas. There is an ancient lawlessness just under the surface of the Reiver territory along Hadrian’s Wall. In the 16th century it became ungovernable. The lead mines were declining when Auden became interested, which seems to have been part of their appeal, along with their wild, remote and physically austere surroundings. The young Auden was always looking for ways out of England that led back into England, in its most condensed and tribal state, its strange familiarity rich in legends, private languages and threat. Hard on the heels of Poems (1930), his second major book, The Orators (1932), now republished, brings this search to a demented fulfilment. The Orators is famous for not “working”, and Auden himself later called it “a fair notion fatally injured”, written by a young man who might have gone mad or turned to fascism, but it exercises a visionary power even as it threatens to disintegrate under the pressure of the competing forces of politics, psychology, sex and religion. We get a sense of a divided self, filtered through public-school rituals and the popular literature of spies and conspiracies. It may be the most avant-garde book of poems published in Britain after The Waste Land. Certainly in “this country of ours where no one is well”, when the psychopathology of the nation now threatens to resurface in a new and alarming form, The Orators’s day is here again. Although, as he grew older, Auden presented himself as a sober rationalist, and felt it necessary to declare his distrust of a magical view of poetry, he remained possessed by just such a view. We may find names for things, creatures, ideas, sensations and experiences but (fortunately) we can never make them entirely the possessions of our understanding. The mystery abides, and for Auden its central location was in the north Pennines.     Auden’s ‘Wild West’ … the north Pennines. Photograph: FLPA/Alamy    When the composer Agustín Fernández and I were invited by New Writing North to write a work for the Durham book festival, arising from Auden’s interest in the north Pennines and their lead mines, my first reaction was, naturally, excitement. Auden is one of the greatest modern poets and among my own favourites. This was swiftly matched by anxiety and doubt: given Auden’s claim to the territory, what could there possibly be to add? He had been very thorough. The opening section of The Orators, the prose “Address for a Prize-Day” helpfully remarks: “All of you must have found out what a great help it is, before starting on a job of work, to have some sort of scheme or plan in your mind.” Indeed. But what? It was an episode from an early Auden poem, “The Watershed” (1927) that offered a way into what became the song cycle Notes from Underground. The poem tells, briefly and tantalisingly, of a dead man transported under a mountain along tunnels through a lead mine because the upland passes were closed by stormy winter weather. While making a radio programme at the end of the last century (imagine being able to use that wing-collared phrase), I went down the mine at Nenthead, along a herringbone brick tunnel, knee-deep in swiftly running water. Along the passage lay spoil-heaps known as “the deads”, which in memory have begun to resemble tombs. Now a story suggested itself: a dream-vision of a descent into the underworld, which I seemed to have been visiting regularly since working on a translation of the Inferno. It’s a narrative as fundamental as any we have. In various forms it can be found in Greek mythology, in the Aeneid and Dante, and in modern times in Cocteau’s cinematic masterpiece Orphée (and, at a less exalted level, in Tolkien, whose work Auden greatly admired). The mines offer a distinctive northern hell, whose presiding powers are less inclined to name themselves than are Homer’s or Dante’s. A downward journey would involve the protagonist facing a tribunal and accusations before being permitted to return, for the moment, to the daylight world. The central character would not of course in any sense be Auden, but the crisis he encountered would involve questions of guilt, love, responsibility and identity which are the common ground of our lives, and which Auden so brilliantly and freshly imagined for his times and our own.     Sean O’Brien. Photograph: Murdo MacLeod    Auden himself worked extensively with composers – Britten, Stravinsky, Henze – and like many poets he viewed music as the supreme art. In his 1938 sonnet “The Composer”, he wrote: “Only your notes are pure contraption, / Only your song is an absolute gift.” The chance to live in the climate of music is irresistibly attractive to poets. Notes from Underground has from the outset been a genuine collaboration with Agustín Fernández, in which we have discovered an imaginative affinity between words and the subterranean sound-world Agustín has created, a place of terror, enchantment and possible redemption. To interpret the resulting work is a matter for the listener, but a verse from Ecclesiastes comes to mind – not as an explanation, but perhaps as a witness to what lies on the border of understanding: “All things are full of labour; man cannot utter it: the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.” • Notes from Underground will be performed at the Durham book festival by the Royal Northern Sinfonia and Voices of Hope on 15 October at the Gala theatre, Durham. durhambookfestival.com/programme.
