Supreme court justices wanted: apply within
https://www.theguardian.com/law/guardian-law-blog/2012/oct/16/supreme-court-vacancies-advertised
Vacancies for three supreme court justices advertised on Tuesday open up the prospect of increased judicial diversity in the UKs highest court. The appointments mark the largest changeover in judges on the 12 strong bench since the court was established three years ago. It is currently composed of eleven men and one woman, Lady Hale; none are from an ethnic minority. The information pack for candidates states that: The selection commission is anxious to attract applications from the widest field, and in making recommendations will bear in mind the nature of the court and the way it is likely to develop over the next few years. The salary is £206, 857 plus pension. One of the three posts will be filled by a Scottish judge to replace Lord Hope, deputy president of the supreme court, who retires in June next year. Another vacancy has been created by the departure of Lord Dyson, who has been appointed master of the rolls, the head of the civil judiciary in England and Wales. Lord Walker is due to retire in March next year. None of the remaining judges are due to retire until 2018 so there will be intense judicial and political interest in this round of selections. Judges are appointed on the basis of merit; a tiebreaker clause in the crime and courts bill, now going through parliament, would allow for the appointments panel to choose a judge from a less well represented social group if both candidates are deemed equally well qualified, but it is unlikely to become law in time for this selection process. A report by the House of Lords constitution committee earlier this year recommended setting targets to appoint more judges from among women and members of ethnic minorities if the judiciary does not make itself more diverse within the next five years. The selection commission chaired by Lord Neuberger, president of the supreme court, will include the judicial appointments bodies for the UK. Under the Constitutional Reform Act 2005, the selection panel must consult a list of people about their nominations including the lord chancellor (Chris Grayling) and the senior judges - that means the supreme court judges, the lord chief justice and the master of the rolls, among others. Successful candidates are expected to demonstrate to an exceptional degree social awareness and understanding of the contemporary world, clarity of thought and willingness to learn about new areas of the law. Interviews are scheduled for December but the results will probably not be announced until next year. The woman most frequently tipped for judicial promotion is Lady Justice Hallett, 62, who presided over the July 7th bombing inquests, though she has also been mentioned as a possible next lord chief justice. Joshua Rozenberg wrote here that Lady Justice Black is also a contender for the supreme court. The qualifying criteria are set out in legislation. Applicants must have been judges in the high court, court of appeal or court of session for at least two years, or they must have been practising solicitors or barristers for at least 15 years. Who would you nominate?
