Ten lessons from Cannes
https://www.theguardian.com/media-network/marketing-agencies-association-partner-zone/lessons-highlights-cannes-lions-2014
Theyve just about cleared the empties from outside the Gutter Bar after last months Cannes Lions Festival of Creativity. Time then for the annual MAA Cannes Round-Up, presented by Patrick Collister, the head of design at Google and editor of Directory magazine and online archive. An assembled audience of MAA members met at the Shoreditch office of BD Network to hear what Collister had to say about Cannes 2014. Heres a digest of his wit and wisdom: 1. Cannes has changed since Collisters first visit in 1984: Its a place where creatives used to go to lick their wounds. Now its stuffed with CMOs and people doing business, its now a festival of media. Probably 20 per cent [of delegates] are creative people but its mostly CMOs slapping their agencies around the heads. 2. Well see lots more interactive posters. Collister cited German agency Kolle Rebbes work for development organisation Misereor as a prime example. The Social Swipe won 10 awards, including two Gold Lions. 3. South America is now well established as a hotbed of creativity. It used to be that creativity resided in Europe and North America but countries like Peru did really well. 4. Print advertising isnt what it used to be. Collister highlighted that legendary DDB creative Julian Koenig, who devised the famous VW print work of the early 1960s, passed away in June. Collister said: This [VW] was print advertising doing something so interesting it became part of culture. Innovation and advertising on a grand scale. Non of the [press] work [at Cannes] had the same excitement as a piece of VW work from 1962. I find press the most depressing section of all. There was innovation in the 1960s through tone and a new approach. Taking total irreverence to solve a problem. Im not sure any of the press ads represented that sea change. 5. Agencies that collaborate tend to win awards. Especially when they work with new types of partners: Sometimes there were three agency names on the work [entered at Cannes]. Agency collaboration with tech and build behind a concept, said Collister. 6. Categories such as product design, innovation etc are stretching the nature of work that agencies offer to clients: The whole business of invention coming into advertising is interesting... Agencies are moving away from selling time to clients and asking what else can we sell? In support of this point, Collister cited Interlude, which styles itself as a technology company but provides agency-like services to clients while also selling products. Interludes interactive video platform won four Gold Lions at Cannes after it was used to create an interactive version of Bob Dylans Like A Rolling Stone for Sony Music. 7. In a related point, Collister said that new types of agency are emerging: Brands have short-term needs too. This is where the independents come in – not doing a big brand-building thing but wanting to be paid for a project and move on. Collister used the stat that 46% of Grand Prix winners were created by independent agencies. And independents were responsible for campaigns that won 25% of all Lions at this years Festival. 8. Not one direct mail campaign won a Gold Lion in the Direct category. Sadly in Collisters view. I love direct mail, he told the audience. 9. Often the more interesting work is hidden among the Bronze winners and those campaigns that didnt win at all. Collister cited Colenso BBDO/Proximity NZs Be Good with Money work for BNZ as an example. Amazingly this won absolutely nothing, he said. 10. Popularity is no guarantee of creating a winner at Cannes. Crispin Porter + Boguskys Kobe v Messi The Selfie Shootout film for Turkish Airlines is the number one piece of branded entertainment on YouTube according to Collister (138 million views and counting) yet won nothing at Cannes. I find it amazing. Sometimes there is a massive disconnect between people in our industry and the people were trying to reach, said Collister. Ian Darby is head of content at the Marketing Agencies Association. This advertisement feature is brought to you by the Marketing Agencies Association, sponsors of the Guardian Media Networks agencies hub.
