The Guardian view on the criminal courts charge: unjust, ineffective and mean-spirited
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/oct/18/the-guardian-view-on-the-criminal-courts-charge-unjust-ineffective-and-mean-spirited
The justice secretary Michael Gove has begun to receive some unexpected bouquets over his approach to criminal justice reform in recent weeks, notably from the fair-minded former lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, in parliament last week. Not content with making a series of progressive speeches, including one at the Conservative conference two weeks ago, about the importance of the rehabilitation of offenders, Mr Gove last week also won an important cabinet battle to stop a £5.9m contract to provide training for prison officers in Saudi Arabia. Now, though, he can do even better. Of the many ill-considered policies Mr Gove inherited from his illiberal predecessor Chris Grayling in May, few are more damaging to the fairness of the our justice system than the criminal courts charge, which Mr Grayling quietly introduced, without any public consultation or parliamentary debate, during the fag end of the last parliament. The charges require defendants who plead guilty in the magistrates’ courts, where lesser offences are tried, to automatically pay £150 for the privilege. Those who fight a more serious case and lose face a bill for £1000 (which rises to £1200 in the crown court). The charge is not means-tested – so ability to pay is ignored when it is imposed; nor do courts have discretion over its imposition. The consequences have been entirely predictable – and quite possibly intentional. Breadline defendants are choosing to plead guilty and pay the £150 rather than run the risk of an even higher charge by pleading not guilty. Not surprisingly, and rightly, lawyers and reformers are incensed. The Law Society and the Bar Council, plus lobby groups like the Howard League for Penal Reform, say that defendants are pleading guilty even when they are innocent. Dozens of magistrates across England have resigned rather than participate in the system, including one who was initially suspended for offering to pay a destitute defendant’s charge himself. Last month in New Zealand, the current lord chief justice, Lord Thomas, said that the new charges were “imperilling” Magna Carta rights of access to justice. Financial charges for those who use the courts are neither new nor even inherently unfair. They are extensive in civil justice. But charges have become increasingly contentious under this government because of Treasury spending cuts. Overall spending by the justice ministry has been reduced from £9.9bn in 2010-11 to £6.4bn this year. As the ministry itself said in a submission to the Commons justice committee in September: “If we are to secure sustainable funding of the courts and tribunals, we must also look to those who use the system to contribute more where they can afford to do so.” Note those last seven words, “where they can afford to do so”. They express precisely the necessary caveat that has been ignored in the criminal courts charges, which make no allowance for a defendant’s means. By ignoring that principle the ministry deliberately denies the protection of the law to the poor. But the ministry has got its sums wrong too. The pre-launch expectation of income from the criminal courts charge was somewhere between £65mand £85m every year. So far, however, it is reported that only around £5m in charges has been imposed, and a mere £300,000 collected. So the system is unjust, ineffective and mean-minded. Now there is better news. Last week, after a debate initiated by Lord Beecham, who compared the extra charges to “Ryanair justice”, the House of Lords voted by a majority of 32 to condemn the new system. Among those who criticised the charges were Lord Woolf and the former head of the UK supreme court, Lord Phillips. Almost immediately, reports circulated that Mr Gove has himself had enough and that the criminal court charges will be either scrapped or very substantially reformed only six months after they were introduced. And so they should be, without delay. Mr Gove should not wait for the justice committee’s report. At the very least, the criminal courts charge should be means-tested, and courts should be given discretion to apply it. But the fundamental objective must be to ensure that no one is discouraged from defending themselves by the cost of the charge. It was Jeremy Bentham who in 1795 wrote in his Protest Against Law-Taxes that: “The statesman who contributes to put justice out of reach … is an accessary after the fact to every crime.” That is exactly what Mr Grayling made himself by introducing the criminal courts charge. Mr Gove should put an end to this injustice immediately.
