US telecom businesses struggling to make connections as Cuba opens up
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/mar/23/us-telecom-businesses-cuba-relations-etecsa
Obama’s historic visit to Cuba comes amid a frenzy of deal-making by US corporations keen to take full advantage of opportunities to come. But one area – technology and telecoms – shows just how complicated unwinding 50 years of hostility will be for companies and Cubans.   Related: Cuba needs modernising – but it can manage without McDonald's    Ahead of the president’s trip, Verizon Communications announced a direct interconnection agreement with Etecsa, Cuba’s state telecom monopoly. Verizon was one of a number of companies, including Marriott and Western Union, to announce new deals before the president’s visit but it was not the first US telecom to make a move. That honor belongs to IDT Corp, which last year became the first US telecom company to sign such a deal with Cuba and capitalize on the US government’s efforts to reopen relations with its former cold war foe. And while other deals are in the offing, with Google, ATT and others all looking keenly at Cuba, the string of agreements masks a lingering distrust between the two countries that has so far made it difficult to close larger-scale agreements to provide telecommunications services and equipment within Cuba. Overcoming the US trade embargo against Cuba and decades of hostile relations between the countries is challenging for any US business trying to tap potential new opportunities in Cuba. But for telecom and information technology firms, the more recent revelations about the National Security Agency’s global surveillance practices add another hurdle to cracking the nascent Cuban market. In 2014 it was revealed that the US government had secretly financed ZunZeno, a social network dubbed the “Cuban Twitter”, in the hopes of using it to undermine the Castro regime. “The Cuban government is rightly suspicious of US telecommunications companies, courtesy of Mr [Edward] Snowden,” said John Kavulich, president of the US-Cuba Trade and Economic Council, a New York-based not-for-profit body that aims to promote trade between the two countries. When the Obama administration launched its push to normalize relations with Cuba in December 2014, telecommunications was among the first industries to see an easing of restrictions to encourage trade and the free flow of information to and from the Cuban people. A series of new regulations allow US telecom and internet companies to engage in a variety of commercial activities in Cuba. They include selling infrastructure equipment and devices such as mobile phones and computers, forming joint ventures with Etecsa, and setting up shop in Cuba to offer telecom and internet services. Along with updated rules issued by the departments of Commerce and Treasury, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) earlier this year removed Cuba from its “exclusion list”, letting US companies provide telecom services to Cuba without separate approval from the agency. Despite the trade-friendly measures, Havana has remained wary. Pedro Freyre, chair of the international practice at Miami-based law firm Akerman LLP, called progress in the telecom sector so far, “limited”. “I think it’s a little slower than most people would have wanted,” he said. Given the decades of animosity built up between the US and Cuba, that may not seem so surprising. But the NSA revelations of the last few years have only heightened Cuban worries in an area of trade that’s inherently sensitive because of national security implications. “There’s such a trust deficit, that to get over that in normal bilateral negotiations is hard enough. Doing it in the ICT [information and communication technology] space is going to be very challenging,” said Reuben Smith-Vaughan, executive director of the US-Cuba Business Council, formed in September by the US Chamber of Commerce. Trade groups say Cuban officials have raised concerns about potential US surveillance when meeting with US telecom and technology firms. “They’ll ask the questions, ‘How do we know that whatever we might buy from you – servers, for example – won’t be compromised before they arrive, or when they get here?’” Kavulich said. He added that officials also want security “backdoors” built into telecom-related products to be able to monitor electronic communications. “That’s a policy problem for US companies,” said Kavulich.     Laptops lay on a table inside the new Google technology center that will offer free internet at the studio of Cuban artist Alexis Leiva Machado, better known as Kcho. Photograph: Ramón Espinosa/AP    Cuba’s domestic telecommunications policy is another problem. The country has long ranked “as one of the world’s most repressive environments for information and communication technologies”, according to a Freedom House report. Last year, the advocacy group rated the country among the worst for internet freedom, with many users limited to a government-filtered intranet and national email system. Citing the latest data from the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), it estimated Cuba’s internet penetration at 30% in 2014. But access to the open internet has been estimated in recent years at only about 5%. Residential connections are almost non-existent. When it comes to devices, only about 22% of Cubans owned mobile phones at the end of 2014, per ITU. Following a bilateral meeting in April 2015, a US official said the Cuban government had pledged to expand home internet connections to 50% of the population, and mobile connections to 60%, by 2020. But the infrastructure upgrade required led knowledgeable observers to question how realistic those goals are, Freedom House noted. Even if Cuba ramps up infrastructure building, US companies face stiff competition from international rivals. China and China-based companies, in particular, have played a big part in supplying Cuba’s telecom equipment to date, according to Larry Press, a professor of information systems at California State University, Dominguez Hills, who authors the Internet in Cuba blog. “Huawei is the major infrastructure supplier in Cuba at this point,” said Press, referring to the China-based telecom equipment manufacturer. Etecsa on 1 February, for example, announced a pilot project to provide broadband services in two neighborhoods of Old Havana through fiber-optic cables operated by Huawei. The announcement came just over a week after a high-level US delegation including the FCC commissioner, Thomas Wheeler, and companies such as Cisco Systems, Comcast and the North American division of Ericsson, had met with Cuban officials to discuss opening up telecom trade and more direct communication links between the countries. One topic addressed was the possibility of a north-south undersea cable between the US and Cuba. Daniel Sepulveda, deputy assistant secretary of state and US coordinator for international communications and information policy, told the Miami Herald there at least a half-dozen US and non-US proposals to construct the cable. Cuba’s existing connections come through satellite and an undersea fiber-optic cable that links it to Venezuela and Jamaica. In a statement issued following the three-day trip to Havana, Wheeler said the US urged the Cuban government to bypass upgrading to DSL and 3G technologies, and leapfrog to state-of-the-art services. “It is unclear, however, just how anxious the Cuban government is to open up expanded network capabilities,” he wrote. Smith-Vaughan noted that Cuba’s reticence regarding telecom development also reflects priorities it has in modernizing other parts of its economy such as agriculture, construction and transportation. “Those are the things they need to build on first,” he said.
