Chinese Defense Statement on the U.S. Cyberspying Indictment - 
Chinese Defense Statement on the U.S. Cyberspying Indictment
Chinese Defense Statement on the U.S. Cyberspying Indictment
The Chinese Ministry of National Defense has issued a statement on its website condemning the United States indictments of five Chinese military officers on charges of hacking into commercial networks to steal corporate secrets. Following is a translation by :
On May 19 Beijing time, the United States Department of Justice indicted five members of the Chinese military on charges of so-called commercial cybertheft. China expresses its strong indignation and staunch opposition to this, and already had made solemn representations to the United States.
Chinas stance on Internet security issues has been consistent and clear. China is a protector of Internet security, and the Chinese government and military have never engaged or participated in any theft of commercial secrets over the Internet. The United States claims of so-called commercial cybertheft and so on have been spun out of thin air to bamboozle public opinion, and they have been made out of nefarious motives.
For a long time, the relevant agencies of the United States have relied on its advanced technology and infrastructure to carry out large-scale, organized cybertheft, bugging and monitoring against foreign politicians, businesses and individuals. These facts are known to all. The hypocrisy and double standards of the United States regarding Internet security issues have been abundantly obvious from WikiLeaks to the Snowden affair. The Chinese military is a serious victim of this kind of U.S. conduct. Statistics show that the Internet user terminals of the Chinese military have come under many attacks from abroad in recent years, and IP addresses show that a considerable number of these originated in the United States. China demands that the United States give it a clear explanation of its cybertheft, bugging and monitoring activities, and immediately stop such activity.
Chinese-U.S. military relations have been enjoying healthy development, and this step by the United States flies in the face of its vow to strive to build healthy, stable and reliable military-to-military relations, and it has seriously damaged bilateral mutual confidence. The U.S. side should demonstrate true sincerity and take substantive actions to promote the healthy and stable development of Chinese-U.S. state-to-state and military-to-military relations.
Beijing (China), China, Computer Security, United States, WikiLeaks
A Rare, Partial Victory in Saving Remnants of Old Beijing
Charges of Chinese Cyberspying, Wanted Posters Included
Sinosphere, the China blog of , delivers intimate, authoritative coverage of the planet's most populous nation and its relationship with the rest of the world. Drawing on timely, engaging dispatches from The Times distinguished team of China correspondents, this blog brings readers into the debates and discussions taking place inside a fast-changing country and details the cultural, economic and political developments shaping the lives of 1.3 billion people.
Chinese Debate Proper Response to Hostages Killing
Some called on the government to send troops to the Middle East in retaliation to an Islamic State killing, while others cautioned that such a move could invite terrorism at home.Readmore
Thailand Deports 2 Dissidents to China, Rights Groups Say
The dissidents had won official recognition as refugees and had been previously detained in China for their activism, Chris Buckley reports.Readmore
Human rights advocates listened with a mixture of incredulity and derision to the delegations responses on interrogation, Nick Cumming-Bruce reports. Readmore
Obama Calls on Beijing to Stop Construction in South China Sea
In the Philippines for an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, President Obama urged China to halt military activities on the disputed islands, Michael D. Shear reports. Readmore
Police in China Kill 17 Linked to Mine Attack, Report Says
The dead, including women and children, were said to have been involved in a knife attack in September that left 50 people dead at a mine near the Kyrgyzstan border, Javier C. Hernndez reports. Readmore
