WOMAN NOT LISTED AS SECURITY PERIL - 

September 6, 1975, Page 1  Archives
WASHINGTON, Sept. 5A White House spokesman said today that Lynette Alice Fromme, who was charged with the attempted assassination of President Ford, was not on the Secret Service list of persons representing a potential threat to the security of the President.The Secret Service list, kept on computer tapes in Washington, is used to avert possible danger to the President.But despite its computers, and despite a manyfold increase in manpower and money since the assassination of President Kennedy, the Secret Service was unable today to prevent Miss Fromme from approaching within arm's length of the President with a pistol.The chief spokesman for the service, John W. Warner Jr., would not comment this afternoon about how Miss Fromme was able to get so close to the President carrying the weapon, despite all security precautions.According to press reports, Miss Fromme was charged with attempted murder in 1972 but the charge was reduced and then dropped. Recently she had publicly made statements critical of Mr. Ford.
A former Secret Service agent said that the computer list was composed chiefly of the names of persons who had made threats against the lives of Presidents. Testimony by Secret Service officials last March disclosed that 47,000 names were on the list, including political dissidents who may have made a threat against the President and some who had not.Mr. Warner declined to discuss security measures taken to protect the President. But the former agent and another former senior lawenforcement officer said that all names on the list who were in an area to be visited by the President were supposed to be checked out by a Secret Service advance party well before the President's arrival.Since the killing of President Kennedy on Nov. 22, 1963, the protection given the President has been doubled and redoubled. The budget of the agency, which was about $5million at the beginning of the nineteensixties, is about $98million in the current fiscal year. The number of special agents has more than tripled and now stands at about 1,300.Although the Secret Service will not discuss numbers, the special detail assigned to guard the President is considerably larger than it was before the death of President Kennedy. These agents are the conservatively dressed, husky, seriousfaced young men one invariably sees in photographs of the President making a public appearance.The agents watch the crowd intently, keeping note of facial expressions, moves toward the President and hand motions. When the President moves among a crowd shaking hands, as he was doing today when Miss Fromme pointed the gun at him, it is considered an especially dangerfraught situation by the Secret Service.The Secret Service also uses sophisticated technology including small machine guns and advanced surveillance devices, to protect the President.Different Presidents present different security problems to the Secret Service agents, who can make suggestions to the President but cannot give him orders. Mr. Ford, who enjoys mingling with crowds and shaking hands, presumably is a more difficult President to protect than, say, Richard M. Nixon, who was fairly aloof from crowds on most occasions.Vincent Bugliosi, who wrote the book Helier Skelter about the Manson group, told  that he had repeatedly stated publicly that Miss Fromme was potentially dangerous and had previously made threats against President Nixon.The Alcohol Tax and Firearm Bureau of the Treasury Department has been assigned to trace the weapon with which Miss Fromme allegedly threatened the President. It was described as a standard 1911 Model Colt 45caliber semiautomatic pistol that was manufactured for the United States Army in 1914. The bureau did not release the serial number.
We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
A version of this archives appears in print on September 6, 1975, on page 1 of the New York edition with the headline: WOMAN NOT LISTED AS SECURITY PERIL.

