NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
THERE was a huge increase in e-mail spam last month, and the recent problems in the credit markets are partly to blame, says the computer security firm Symantec.With the housing market taking a continued hit in September, in-boxes also took an increased hit as spammers exploited the recent market slowdown and subsequent interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve, Symantec noted in its monthly State of Spam report (symantec.com). Much of the increase came from spam directed towards homeowners and prospective homeowners offering refinancing, home equity loans, and actual houses, Symantec said.Also behind the rise in spam last month, according to the e-mail security firm SoftScan, are college students. We think their machines are infected before they get back to their campuses, said Diego dAmbra, SoftScans chief technology officer
Those computers are plugged into high-speed campus networks, and, unbeknownst to the students, are turned into spam zombies. Spam increased by 39 percent during September, SoftScan said (softscan.co.uk).Spammers use zombies to create vast networks, called botnets, that they use to send messages.Traditionally, botnets are created with scale in mind  the bigger, the better. But that may be changing, according to Mika Stahlberg, a security manager at F-Secure. He told Silicon.com that the economics may work better with more, but smaller, botnets. These people dont want to put all their eggs in one basket, he said.CALL AND RESPONSE Elsewhere in the annoyance industry, a woman who complained that she received telemarketing calls from the satellite television provider DirecTV was unhappy with the response she got from
a company paralegal. The woman claimed she was on the companys Do Not Call list, and should not have been called (consumerist.com). But, the paralegal, Rose G. Foley, responded in a letter that was reprinted on the blog that the calls were not to sell you anything but were purely informational calls intended to remind you of your status and give you an opportunity to change your do-not-call preference.
Since our calls were informational in nature, and not telemarketing sales calls, Ms. Foley added, they violated no laws.Carey Greenberg-Berger of the Consumerist does not necessarily agree. We would love to hear what the army of lawyers over at the F.T.C. and F.C.C. thinks of DirecTVs deceptive and likely illegal interpretation of the
The legality of any particular instance cannot be interpreted with certainty by a blogger or a newspaper columnist. But the Federal Trade Commission in 2005 fined DirecTV $5.3 million
for violating its telemarketing sales rule. This is the largest civil penalty the F.T.C. has ever announced in a case enforcing any consumer protection law, the commission said (ftc.gov).A DirecTV spokesman said the informational calls had ceased.DEATH WATCH There are 10 industries that are all but certain to die, or at least lapse into a coma, in the next 10 years, according to Geoff Williams of Entrepreneur.com. Among those on the list are record stores (unless you include Wal-Mart); gay bars (thanks to increased tolerance, the very best of them will endure; the rest wont.); used-book stores; and pay phones. Oh, and telemarketing.MANAGING ROSIE The July 1943 issue of Transportation Magazine offered advice to businessmen on how to handle female employees. Road & Travel magazine has a copy on its Web site (roadandtravel.com). In all, there were 11 bits of advice. No. 3 was: General experience indicates that husky girls  those who are just a little on the heavy side  are more even-tempered and efficient than their underweight sisters.DAN MITCHELL
Complete links are at nytimes.com/business.E-mail: whatsonline@nytimes.com.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page C5 of the National edition with the headline: The Fed Jammed Your In-Box.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
