Deleting User Accounts on a Mac - 

Q. How do I delete a user on a shared Mac that is on OS X El Capitan, and what would happen to all the photos, documents and other files in that persons account?A. The Macs OS X operating system, like Windows and Linux, allows multiple users to each have their own account and password on the computer, where they can keep their files and settings separate. If your account is at the administrator level and not a standard or other managed account, you can delete other user accounts. When you do, you have the option of saving that users files and settings or wiping the data entirely from the Mac.
When you choose to delete a account on the Mac, OS X gives you three choices about what to do with that users files.
To start, open the System Preferences from either the icon in the Dock, or by selecting System Preferences under the Apple Menu in the top-left corner of the Macs menu bar. In the System Preferences box, click the Users & Groups icon. In the Users & Groups box, click the Lock icon in the bottom-left corner and type in your administrator name and password.In the list of users on the left side of the box, select the account you want to delete and click the Remove button below the names. A box appears with several options regarding that accounts home folder, which is the place where all of the users personal files and settings are kept.For one, you can delete the account  but create a disk image archive file of the home folder  in case you think the person might return to the Mac and want the files. You can also just delete the account, but leave the home folder where it is. Like the first option, this one also lets you later restore the account and its files if needed. (As a precaution before they go, departing users might want to create backup copies of their files to take along.)As a final option, you can delete the account and all of its data  and even securely erase it all so those files are gone for good. Once you have made your decision, click the Delete User button.
Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.

Answering questions about the technology, devices and apps in our lives.
Want to make your own app? There are free classes for that

