Lion's Upgraded, Robust Security Features - The New York Times
New bells and whistles arent the only reason to upgrade to Lion. The new version of Apples operating system for the Mac also includes updated security features.
Macs have long been safer than Windows PCs, because they are very rarely chosen for attacks, probably because of the Macs much smaller market share and to crooks extensive expertise in writing malware for Windows. But now, they are also more secure than PCs, thanks to several crucial security improvements in the operating system itself, Mac OS X 10.7 ($30 download from the Mac App store).
So says Dino A. Dai Zovi, an independent security consultant. Those operating system features now put Lion ahead of Windows 7, the latest version Microsofts operating system, whose leadership was forged from the fire of relentless attacks by hackers and malware writers, he says.
The move comes while OS X remains a virtually malware-free zone, but concerns are rising that that wont last. Quite a few Mac users were hit by a scareware program known as MacDefender this spring. As cybercrime rises and Macs market share grows, many experts expect more to come.
Seeing an increasing need for caution, Apple put a lot of security features in the iPhone, Mr. Dai Zovi says. But on the Mac they havent really put in a lot of security features until now. After all, why bother with locks if no one is trying to get in? But today, there is good reason: dissuading attackers from ever trying and knocking them back if they do. Theyre increasing the security protections as the bulls-eye gets bigger, he says.
Here are the top three new Mac security measures, according to Mr. Dai Zovi:
Sandboxes  Apple has embraced sandboxing, technology that restricts what an application can and cant do and forces it to play only in its own little sandbox. Apples take on sandboxes  applications cannot read or write data in any app but their own  is stricter than that of Microsoft and Adobe, Mr. Dai Zovi says.
Many Apple applications are sandboxed in Lion, including the Safari Web browser and the Preview application that is used to view PDFs and images. This is welcome, considering that Web sites and Adobe files are the favorite vehicles of malware today. It means that a virus from the Web would be stuck in Safari and unable to grab assets elsewhere in your computer.
Even better, says Mr. Dai Zovi, starting in November, Apple will require that all applications sold in its Mac App store use this sort of sandbox by default. The requirement will end what has been an honors system in which Apple trusts but does not enforce that requirement. In the past, for example, Apple could not be sure that Skype wouldnt read cookies stored in your browser and log into your Gmail account. Sandboxed, Skype wouldnt be capable of that  and neither would that random product purchased from a fly-by-night start-up.
Apps sold in the store will also be subject to security checks by Apple, which could make the Mac App store the safest place to buy software for your Mac. It will work a lot like Apples store for mobile apps, where nary a malicious application has been seen.
Address Space Layout Randomization  Its a mouthful, but its very good for you. ASLR, which involves rearranging memory in an application, makes it significantly harder for hackers to exploit software vulnerabilities because they dont know where their potential targets are located.
Snow Leopard used ASLR in a limited way, and if its not complete, its almost a waste, Mr. Dai Zovi says. Lion, however, carries out ASLR fully, catching Macs up to Windows and Linux.
So far, most Mac attacks have involved social engineering to trick users into installing something malicious, not the sort of automated download that ASLR defends against. Apple is being proactive here, he says. Its likely that, as the Mac platform gains market share, they will see this type of malware.
FileVault 2  Lion includes Apples second stab at data encryption for your computer. In Snow Leopard, FileVault encrypted only users home directories, the place where most user files are kept. The program was also slow and didnt work well with Time Machine, the Mac backup system.
With Lion, however, FileVault delivers full-disk encryption and encrypted data in Time Machine backups and on removable drives. This change means that if your laptop (or USB stick) is lost or stolen  arguably Mac users biggest security risk  your data is safe. You do have to be careful not to get locked out yourself. As a safety net, you can have Apple store a recovery key for you, should you forget your password, or you can print it out and stash it in a safe place.
So is all this a reason to upgrade to Lion immediately? Not necessarily.
With the security threats so limited, it isnt vital to have these features right now, Mr. Dai Zovi says. There are always a few rough edges in an initial release, and there might be some incompatibilities with various applications, he says. These kinks are usually worked out by the .1 or .2 releases, and that would be a better time for most users to upgrade.
Gadgetwise is a blog about everything related to buying and using tech products. From figuring out which gadget to buy and how to get the best deal on it to configuring it once its out of the box, Gadgetwise offers a mix of information, analysis and opinion to help you get the most out of your personal tech.
All the regular features on the Gadgetwise blog can now be found on the Personal Tech section front. Thank you for reading.Readmore
FX-Sport VR1 Programmable Personal Trainer Headphones are a smart concept  a pair of headphones with a built-in coach, or virtual competitor. Readmore
Online file storage services like Dropbox let you share files with people who do not have an account with the company.Readmore
Q&A: Revealing Your Location (or Not) to Mobile Apps
Mobile apps may have useful reasons for requesting your location information, while others just want to show you local advertising.Readmore
Amazons store for Android apps has a Test Drive feature that lets you see an app in action before you buy or download it.Readmore
