Apple Faces U.S. Demand to Unlock 9 More iPhones - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Technology|Apple Faces U.S. Demand to Unlock 9 More iPhones
By ERIC LICHTBLAU and JOSEPH GOLDSTEINFEB. 23, 2016
The Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., foreground, and New York Citys police commissioner, William J. Bratton, behind him, say they have about 175 iPhones they have been unable to unlock.
WASHINGTON  The Justice Department is demanding Apples help in unlocking at least nine iPhones nationwide in addition to the phone used by one of the San Bernardino, Calif., attackers.The disclosure appears to buttress the companys concerns that the dispute could pose a threat to encryption safeguards that goes well beyond the single California case.Apple is fighting the governments demands in at least seven of the other nine cases, Marc J. Zwillinger, a lawyer for the company, said in a letter unsealed in federal court on Tuesday.Apple has not agreed to perform any services on the devices, Mr. Zwillinger wrote. Starting in December, the letter says, Apple has in a number of cases objected to the Justice Departments efforts to force its cooperation through a 1789 statute known as the All Writs Act, which says courts can require actions to comply with their orders.In the San Bernardino case, prosecutors have cast their demands for Apple to help them unlock the iPhone used by Syed Rizwan Farook  one of the attackers in the December rampage, in which 14 people were killed  as a limited effort in response to an unusual situation.
Still, no one should be surprised that were investigating other cases and looking for assistance in those other cases, a law enforcement official said on Tuesday.Since challenging a judges demand in the San Bernardino case, which called for Apple to create a special tool to help investigators more easily crack the phones passcode, the company has repeatedly asserted that such a move could not be done in isolation.Once created, the technique could be used over and over again, on any number of devices, Apples chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, said in a letter to customers. And in a note on its website on Monday, Apple said law enforcement agencies nationwide have hundreds of iPhones they want Apple to unlock if the F.B.I. wins this case.Apple has long maintained that it would hand over data to comply with a court order when it was technically able to do so. In a report covering the first six months of 2015, Apple said it had received nearly 11,000 requests from government agencies worldwide for information on roughly 60,000 devices, and it provided some data in roughly 7,100 instances.But while the data backed up on Apples iCloud service is readily accessible by the company, it has made the security on the iPhone itself increasingly hard to crack.
Because a number of the newly disclosed cases remain sealed, Apples letter did not describe the types of crimes at issue. But they appear to involve run-of-the-mill prosecutions for offenses like drug trafficking and pornography, rather than a high-profile terrorism investigation, officials said.The newly disclosed cases are in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Boston.The existence of the other demands came to light in a drug-trafficking case in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, where prosecutors are seeking access to the data held in an iPhone linked to a methamphetamine distribution ring.The owner of the phone, Jun Feng, 45, has pleaded guilty to conspiracy in the case. But prosecutors have pushed ahead anyway with their efforts to force Apple to unlock his phone, in part because they maintain that it could lead them to other drug suspects.
The two sides are awaiting a ruling from Magistrate Judge James Orenstein on whether Apple should be forced to cooperate. Before issuing a ruling, Judge Orenstein wanted Apple to detail other pending requests from prosecutors.The Brooklyn drug-trafficking case has been dwarfed by the fight in California. But national security lawyers say the Brooklyn case remains important, because Judge Orensteins decision is expected to be the first to offer a broad examination of the governments authority under the All Writs Act to force Apple to unlock passcode-protected iPhones.The judge has indicated skepticism over the governments demands. Initially, Apple agreed to a formal order to help the Justice Department gain access to Mr. Fengs phone, but Judge Orenstein balked, questioning whether the All Writs Act could be used that way. He invited Apples lawyers to raise objections.While his ultimate decision will not be legally binding in California, it could influence the legal arguments there. And an appeal by either side has the potential to work its way through the federal court system to become significant case law.Law enforcement officials around the country are anxiously watching the cases in both Brooklyn and California to see how their own investigations might be affected.At a news conference last week after the debate erupted in California, the New York City police commissioner, William J. Bratton, and the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., said they had collected about 175 iPhones, in investigations, that they have been unable to unlock.Mr. Vance rejected the notion that Apple should be forced to cooperate only in certain prominent crimes.What we discover is that investigation into one crime often leads into criminal activity in another, sometimes much more serious than what we were originally looking at, he said.
Eric Lichtblau reported from Washington, and Joseph Goldstein from New York. Al Baker contributed reporting from New York.
Follow the New York Timess politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on February 24, 2016, on page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Justice Dept. Wants Apple to Unlock More Phones
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
With Finality, F.B.I. Opts Not to Share iPhone-Unlocking Method
F.B.I. Director Suggests Bill for iPhone Hacking Topped $1.3 Million
F.B.I. Says It Needs Hackers to Keep Up With Tech Companies
F.B.I. Used Hacking Software Decade Before iPhone Fight
F.B.I. Lawyer Wont Say if Data From Unlocked iPhone Is Useful
Justice Department Calls Apples Refusal to Unlock iPhone a Marketing Strategy
Apple Fights Order to Unlock San Bernardino Gunmans iPhone
Justice Department Calls Apples Refusal to Unlock iPhone a Marketing Strategy
Apple Fights Order to Unlock San Bernardino Gunmans iPhone
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
