Keeping Up With Android Security Patches - 

Personal Tech|Keeping Up With Android Security Patches
Q. When did Google start rolling out monthly security patches for Nexus tablets, and what do these fix?
Googles Android security updates for its more recent Nexus hardware now appear once a month.
A. After the Stagefright bug was discovered by the Zimperium security company last year, Google announced in August 2015 that it would begin pushing out monthly security updates for the Android system software running on much of its newer Nexus hardware. The frequency of security updates from other manufacturers and carriers may vary, but Samsung announced that it, too, would be providing regular updates for many of its Android-based Galaxy devices.As with software updates and security patches for products released by other technology companies, Google explains what each monthly Android inoculation is supposed to do for your Nexus phone or tablet. Visit the Nexus Security Bulletins page to see a description of the vulnerabilities that each monthly update is intended to repair. For example, the most recent update for March goes into great technical detail about the various remote-code execution and elevation of privilege flaws that have been discovered and fixed.But just as other companies have stopped issuing security patches for their older systems (like Microsoft with Windows XP), Google will probably not release security updates for the entire lifetime of the Nexus device. As stated in the support area of Googles Nexus site, you can expect to get updates for at least three years from when your Nexus phone or tablet model first went on sale in the Google Store, or for 18months after sales of the device are discontinued from Googles online hardware store.
Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.
A version of this article appears in print on March 24, 2016, on page B8 of the New York edition with the headline: Keeping Up With Android Patches.

Answering questions about the technology, devices and apps in our lives.
Want to make your own app? There are free classes for that

