New Security Features From Google - The New York Times
Google is warning Web surfers if sites in its search results show signs of having been hacked.
It is becoming increasingly perilous to surf the Web. Scores of poorly secured sites are being commandeered constantly by criminals and used to abuse visitors.
Its a reality that is particularly alarming and threatening to Google, which often finds, unfortunately, that its search engine is directing Web users to malicious sites. So on Friday, Google said in a blog post that it is ratcheting up its effort to warn Web surfers when they are in danger of wading into a rip tide. It will now display a prominent warning that this site may be compromised on its search-results pages, below the hyperlinks for those sites, if it has detected signs it has been hacked.
The phrase links to a page that explains that Google believes a third party has taken control of the site and may be using it to do things like phish for visitors personal information, scam or spam them. The brash and unconcerned can still click on the site link to visit the page.
The blunt statement, sure to freak out many Web site owners, is an addition to Googles warnings that this site might harm your computer, which it has shown Web users for several years in an effort to stop them from visiting sites that are suspected of distributing malware. The number of sites infected with malware doubled to 1.2 million in the third quarter of this year, according to the Web-security firm Dasient, most of which were hacked legitimate sites. Google shows those warnings both on search-results pages and more stridently on a separate page if the surfer tries to visit the site anyway.
The search giant said it will continue to help site owners recover from hacks and, once that is accomplished, work quickly to remove the scary warnings, which obviously can be business killers. Google tries to contact sites to let them known that someone may be abusing their site so they can correct the problem and allows them to request a review that can accelerate removal of the warnings, or get them off a blacklist if they are spreading malware.
There are other aids for consumers concerned about Web-based attacks. Using a suite of security software can help, since many of these products offer protection from malicious Web sites. Several security firms, including McAfee and AVG, offer free browser tools that scan and warn users about malicious sites while surfing and using Google, Yahoo and Bing. Also, all the major browsers have been adding security features designed to protect their users from Web-based attacks. To take advantage of them, update your browser software to the most recent version.
Gadgetwise is a blog about everything related to buying and using tech products. From figuring out which gadget to buy and how to get the best deal on it to configuring it once its out of the box, Gadgetwise offers a mix of information, analysis and opinion to help you get the most out of your personal tech.
All the regular features on the Gadgetwise blog can now be found on the Personal Tech section front. Thank you for reading.Readmore
FX-Sport VR1 Programmable Personal Trainer Headphones are a smart concept  a pair of headphones with a built-in coach, or virtual competitor. Readmore
Online file storage services like Dropbox let you share files with people who do not have an account with the company.Readmore
Q&A: Revealing Your Location (or Not) to Mobile Apps
Mobile apps may have useful reasons for requesting your location information, while others just want to show you local advertising.Readmore
Amazons store for Android apps has a Test Drive feature that lets you see an app in action before you buy or download it.Readmore
