The 0s and 1s of Computer Warfare - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
The Opinion Pages|The 0s and 1s of Computer Warfare
response to a recent wave of cyberattacks that hit two dozen important Web sites in the United States and South Korea, we are already in the Brave New World of cyberwarfare.After all, what could be more disturbing than to find that someone
anyone, actually, since the attacks relied on very unsophisticated technology
could disrupt the Web infrastructure of two very powerful nations?Yet for all the brouhaha, no classified information was lost, no significant economic damage was done,
and no new cyberweapons were deployed (the virus that made the attack possible
theory that the attacks were launched from North Korea, advanced by some South Korean media and politicians, has not been confirmed. In fact, the amount of effort expended
trying to establish a North Korean connection to the cyberattacks,
only a few days after North Korea tested a real missile system,
threats.Cyberattacks have become a permanent fixture on the international scene because they have become
easy and cheap to launch. Basic computer literacy and a modest budget can go a long way toward
Only a few weeks ago, many ordinary Americans, sympathetic to the protesters
cyberattacks on the Web sites of the Iranian government
their own Web sites could easily become targets as well.Whether greater cybersecurity requires a greater sacrifice of our digital freedoms is an
important debate that we should be having, preferably with all the facts in front of us.Unfortunately, there is a growing risk that governments,
are only intensifying the secrecy that already surrounds anything
Fearing future attacks, governments are likely to classify even more information on the subject, making it impossible for the public to understand the real threat.It may pay
is what has made our cyberspace insecure in the first place.If the last two decades,
marked by the steep rise of open-source software developed and tested by large and open communities,
have taught us anything about security, it is that excessive secrecy is usually not the best way to secure ones networks.There is a reason why open-source operating systems based on Linux are less likely to be infected by a virus than proprietary systems like Microsofts Windows: As computer security experts like to say, given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow.The problem with the current approach to cybersecurity is that by miring it in unnecessary secrecy, we are shrinking,
and fix those bugs.Much of the real computer talent today is concentrated in
the private sector. The only two countries that have successfully found ways to involve their private sectors in cybersecurity
are also the ones commonly accused of being on the cyberoffensive, undoubtedly a very exciting proposition for their patriotic hackers.
To inject more talent into government IT jobs, it is necessary to raise their visibility and prestige, perhaps by creating national Tech Corps
talent into sectors that need it most. Its no secret that many computer science graduates
as an IT ghetto.Above all, we need to start a broad international debate about cybersecurity. The reason why there is none is that in the absence of hard facts and
a modicum of declassified information, such discussions quickly degenerate into a competition of emotional metaphors, meaningless
serious international debate about cybersecurity is impossible if our only reference points are digital Pearl Harbors and e-Katrinas.What we need are common standards that all governments would adhere to, especially in terms of disclosure about the nature of
is a fellow at the Open Society Institute and a blogger for Foreign Policy.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
