For Gadget Geek in the Oval Office, High Tech Has Its Limits - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Politics|For Gadget Geek in the Oval Office, High Tech Has Its Limits
For Gadget Geek in the Oval Office, High Tech Has Its Limits
President Obamas Fitbit device was visible on his left wrist during a meeting in Paris in December.
In this always-on, always-connected world, what good is a Fitbit with no GPS or an iPad that cant connect to the cloud?Hint: Ask President Obama.Mr. Obama is the first true gadget geek to occupy the Oval Office, and yet his eagerness to take part in the personal technology revolution is hampered by the secrecy and security challenges that are daily requirements of his job.What counts as must-have features for many people  high-definition cameras, powerful microphones, cloud-connected wireless radios and precise GPS location transmitters  are potential threats when the leader of the free world wants to carry them around.And so using the latest devices means more than merely ordering one on Amazon for delivery to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. It means accepting the compromises imposed by White House technology experts, whose mission is to secure the presidents communications, and by the Secret Service agents who protect him. Continue reading the main story
I am not allowed, for security reasons, to have an iPhone, Mr. Obama conceded at a youth summit in 2013.
He has not given up, though. Mr. Obama is the first commander in chief to regularly carry a specially secured BlackBerry. He reads briefings and checks scores from ESPN on an iPad (the first of which was given to him by Steve Jobs before its public release). And recently he has been seen wearing the Fitbit Surge, a fitness band packed with all the latest technology, on his left wrist.Mr. Obama was last seen with the fitness tracker during an appearance on Jerry Seinfelds web series, Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee. Mr. Obamas Fitbit makes a brief but clear appearance as he steers a 1963 Corvette Stingray with his left hand.That raises the question: How many of the devices features have been purposely disabled?Fitbits website, which calls the Surge model the ultimate fitness super watch, trumpets GPS tracking and wireless syncing as two key features  both of which could be problematic for security officials who are not keen on broadcasting the presidents location and condition at any moment. The website notes the presence of Bluetooth communications and eight sensors, including a heart-rate monitor.White House officials repeatedly declined to comment on any of the security issues regarding the presidents personal technology. Officials at Fitbit did not respond to emails requesting information about his use of their device.Still, from the experiences of others inside the White House, it is easy to conclude that Mr. Obama is not having a typical out-of-the-box experience with his electronic toys.James E. Cartwright, a retired Marine general who served as the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff during part of Mr. Obamas first term, was one of the administrations earliest tech adopters. Eager for a better way to have information at his fingertips in top-secret meetings, General Cartwright was dazzled by the possibilities when the first iPad was unveiled early in 2010.If nothing else, in the physical sense, not having to have large binders and four lieutenants to carry them for me, General Cartwright said of his decision to carry his briefing documents on an iPad. As soon as people saw it, the race was on: How do I get one?But it wasnt that easy, he recalled. The generals iPad was essentially a prototype modified at his direction by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the militarys high-tech lab that helped develop weather satellites, the Internet, GPS, and stealth technology.
The agency made physical alterations to the iPad, removing the cameras, wireless chips, location sensors and microphones. Briefing documents were loaded onto the device every morning via a secure cable. Anything General Cartwright wanted to save came off the device the same way in a process he called store and dump.
First Draft Political news and analysis from the staff of The New York Times.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
What I ended up with was a pretty dumb iPad, he said. It wasnt connected to anything. Anything was removed that could transmit.Without such alterations, the general would not have been allowed to take the iPad into the White House Situation Room or other secured rooms known as SCIFs (Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities). Baskets sit outside such rooms so that White House staff members or other attendees can drop their iPhones before walking in.General Cartwright declined to say if the presidents iPad had been altered, though others who are familiar with Mr. Obamas technology said it would not be a stretch to assume that similar precautions had been taken for the commander in chief.The president has acknowledged that his BlackBerry is enhanced with security features that ease fears of his emails being hacked or intercepted. Even so, his communications are severely limited  only a small number of designated people are even allowed to send him email.When Mr. Obama posted his first message from the @POTUS Twitter account in May, he borrowed an iPhone from a staff member instead of using his secure BlackBerry.Such precautions are seen as vital in an era when cyberattacks from the nations adversaries are common. Chinese hackers are suspected of having breached millions of records at the Office of Personnel Management, and officials believe Russian hackers penetrated an unclassified White House email system  though apparently not Mr. Obamas BlackBerry.Mr. Obama is not the first person inside the White House to take precautions against high-tech dangers.In 2007, Vice President Dick Cheney disabled the wireless abilities of his defibrillator, which had been implanted to regulate his heartbeat. His fear: that terrorists could have hacked the signal in an assassination attempt, not unlike the dramatic plot twist that killed the vice president in Showtimes Homeland a few years ago.
But Mr. Obama is the first committed early adopter of personal technology to serve as president. In 2014, he told his helicopter pilot to wait while he ran back into the Oval Office. I forgot my BlackBerry, the president told reporters, holding the phone up. When Mr. Obama filmed a short video preview before his State of the Union address this year, his BlackBerry could be seen on the desk behind him, and his new Fitbit was clearly visible.Those close to him say he envisions an ultra-high-tech presidential library when he leaves the White House. And in long dinners with Silicon Valley titans, he has talked extensively about ways to better use personal technology to increase voter turnout and improve civic engagement.Mostly, though, Mr. Obama is just intent on being plugged in the way most Americans are these days. In a town hall exchange in 2011 with Jorge Ramos of Univision, Mr. Obama seemed amused that Mr. Ramos did not think he had his own computer.I mean, Jorge, Im the president of the United States, he said. You think Ive got to go borrow somebodys computer?
Follow the New York Timess politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on January 25, 2016, on page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: For Gadget Geek in the Oval Office, High Tech Has Its Limits.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
