F.B.I. Lawyer Wont Say if Data From Unlocked iPhone Is Useful - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Technology|F.B.I. Lawyer Wont Say if Data From Unlocked iPhone Is Useful
F.B.I. Lawyer Wont Say if Data From Unlocked iPhone Is Useful
WASHINGTON  The epic fight between the F.B.I. and Apple over a locked iPhone is now over, but a central question in the case has remained unanswered: What secrets did the phone, used by one of the attackers in the San Bernardino, Calif., rampage, actually hold?The question has persisted with all the anticipation of Geraldo Riveras ill-fated unlocking of Al Capones secret vault on live television 30 years ago  which produced only a few empty liquor bottles and a stop sign.On Tuesday, the F.B.I.s top lawyer shed a bit more light on the question, a week after the Justice Department announced that it had gotten into the iPhone without Apples help. The lawyer, James A. Baker, the bureaus general counsel, told an audience of privacy professionals in Washington that the F.B.I. had extracted data and was putting it to use.He would not say, however, whether he considered the data  the subject of a monthlong legal battle between Apple and the F.B.I. that ended when an undisclosed outside firm helped investigators unlock the phone  to be useful.Were still working on that, I guess is the answer, he said.But he added: It was worth the fight to make sure that we have turned over every rock that we can with respect to the investigation. We owe it to the victims and the families to make sure that we pursue every logical lead.
Mr. Baker would not say for certain whether the content would be made public.If and when it becomes appropriate to disclose it, we will, he said.After Apple fought the F.B.I.s efforts to force it to help unlock the phone, the bureau paid the outside firm an undisclosed amount to demonstrate for its investigators how to get around two defensive mechanisms that had kept them out.
Breaking Down Apples iPhone Fight With the U.S. Government
The technology company has been locked in a major legal battle against law enforcement officials over privacy and security.
While the results were good news for the F.B.I., they have concerned privacy advocates, who say that Apples vaunted encryption methods may now be vulnerable.F.B.I. officials have been talking with Apple executives about the issue since they unlocked the phone, Mr. Baker said. But he added that we have not shared the solution with Apple to date.For weeks, law enforcement officials have played down expectations about what might be found in the phone, which was used last year by Syed Rizwan Farook before he and his wife carried out the California attack, in which 14 people were killed.Mr. Farook and his wife destroyed several other mobile devices, and it was seen as unlikely that he would keep sensitive information related to the December attack on an intact phone issued to him by the San Bernardino County government.Investigators have hoped that the phone might help them answer two lingering questions: where the couple went in the minutes after the shooting, and whether any unidentified people in the United States or overseas may have been involved in the plot.The only person charged criminally so far in connection with the attack is Enrique Marquez, a friend and former neighbor accused of providing the couple with the assault weapons used in the attack, and of conspiring with Mr. Farook in an earlier, unexecuted plot. The F.B.I. has executed search warrants at the homes of the attackers family members, but no relatives have been charged.Mr. Bakers comments came at a public appearance before the International Association of Privacy Professionals. Michael Sussmann, an electronic privacy lawyer who interviewed Mr. Baker for the event, said afterward that the F.B.I.s ability to extract any data from the phone after such a prolonged struggle was significant, even if the information did not prove particularly eye-opening.
If theres more information in the phone  more contacts, more communications, more of anything  thats a success for the F.B.I., he said.
Follow The New York Timess politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on April 6, 2016, on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: F.B.I. Lawyer Wont Say If Data From Unlocked iPhone Is Useful.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
With Finality, F.B.I. Opts Not to Share iPhone-Unlocking Method
F.B.I. Director Suggests Bill for iPhone Hacking Topped $1.3 Million
F.B.I. Says It Needs Hackers to Keep Up With Tech Companies
F.B.I. Used Hacking Software Decade Before iPhone Fight
F.B.I. Clash With Apple Loosed a Torrent of Possible Ways to Hack an iPhone
Should the Authorities Be Able to Access Your iPhone?
Competing Interests on Encryption Divide Top Obama Officials
Apples New Challenge: Learning How the U.S. Cracked Its iPhone
F.B.I. Clash With Apple Loosed a Torrent of Possible Ways to Hack an iPhone
Should the Authorities Be Able to Access Your iPhone?
Competing Interests on Encryption Divide Top Obama Officials
Apples New Challenge: Learning How the U.S. Cracked Its iPhone
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
