Q&A: Fighting a Clickjack Attack - The New York Times
I often see links posted on my friends Facebook pages that I know are some sort of virus, even though it says my friend liked the page. Can I get infected myself if one of these links shows up on my Facebook News Feed or Wall?
Many of those links promising a look at outrageous videos or photos are part of what is called a clickjacking scam. In this situation, the user is typically tricked into clicking on a provocative link, but hidden code within the page posts a copy of the tainted link to the profiles of all the users friends.
According to a post on a Facebook security page, if you or your friends have been clickjacked, you should be able to remove poison posts on your Facebook Wall and News Feed by moving the mouse cursor to the top-right corner of the unwanted item and clicking the X button to get the Remove and Unlike option.
As a further precaution, check the Info page on your profile and remove any unwanted pages from your lists in the Activities and Interests area. As a general rule, do not click on strange links, even if it appears that close friends have shared them on your Facebook page; horrendous grammar or odd phrasing in the post should be an instant tip-off.
to herd users to sites that pay the perpetrator for page views, and are mostly harmless compared to other malicious activity. But depending on the spammer or scammer behind the code, malicious scripts can be used to deliver malware and junk mail, to phish for account information or to sign up unwitting users for unwanted services.
To further protect yourself, make sure your computer is running an up-to-date security program. (Browser extensions like the NoScript add-on for Mozilla Firefox may help, but need to be configured carefully.) The Sophos security company has a more detailed look at how clickjacking works  and how to recover from it  here. Facebooks own Security area has tips on keeping safe from the latest threats at www.facebook.com/security.
Gadgetwise is a blog about everything related to buying and using tech products. From figuring out which gadget to buy and how to get the best deal on it to configuring it once its out of the box, Gadgetwise offers a mix of information, analysis and opinion to help you get the most out of your personal tech.
All the regular features on the Gadgetwise blog can now be found on the Personal Tech section front. Thank you for reading.Readmore
FX-Sport VR1 Programmable Personal Trainer Headphones are a smart concept  a pair of headphones with a built-in coach, or virtual competitor. Readmore
Online file storage services like Dropbox let you share files with people who do not have an account with the company.Readmore
Q&A: Revealing Your Location (or Not) to Mobile Apps
Mobile apps may have useful reasons for requesting your location information, while others just want to show you local advertising.Readmore
Amazons store for Android apps has a Test Drive feature that lets you see an app in action before you buy or download it.Readmore
