Waiting for Round 2 in the Phone Fight - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
The Opinion Pages|Waiting for Round 2 in the Phone Fight
People lined up outside an Apple store waiting for new iPhone models in 2014.
The Department of Justice says that it might have found a way to unlock an iPhone used by a terrorist without Apples assistance. For the moment, this has halted a legal confrontation between the government and the company. But the question of whether the government can compel Apple to assist it in unlocking its phones remains unanswered, which means that similar disputes will continue to develop.On Monday, the department announced that an unidentified person or business had gone to the Federal Bureau of Investigations with a possible technical solution to help it gain access to the pictures, messages and other information on a locked iPhone 5c used by one of the attackers who killed 14 people in San Bernardino, Calif., in December.The announcement came a day before a federal magistrate judge in California was to hold a hearing on whether Apple could be forced to help the government unlock the phone. The hearing was canceled and the department says it will update the court on April 5 about its progress in opening the phone.This development may end the fight over one phone, but federal, state and local governments are already seeking Apples help in unlocking many more devices and will almost certainly seek help with others in the future. Because Apple constantly updates security features when it introduces new hardware and software, it is not certain that the method the F.B.I. is testing to unlock the California terrorists phone could be used on other phones.
Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Regardless of how the San Bernardino case is resolved, it will not conclusively answer the larger question at stake in this and similar cases: Should courts have the power to compel businesses to undo the security of their products to help law enforcement get access to information? The Justice Department argues that the All Writs Act of 1789 gives courts the power to order businesses and individuals to assist law enforcement even if they are not involved in a crime. But the Supreme Court has said that the law cannot be used to place an unreasonable burden on businesses, which this request would clearly impose.
Lawmakers like Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Senator Richard Burr, Republican of North Carolina, have recently said they plan to introduce legislation that would require technology companies to help unlock devices for law enforcement when presented with a court order. A bipartisan group of House members say they are studying the issue.But creating back doors to access data on devices would be a mistake. It would render data less secure by making it easier for foreign and domestic intelligence agencies and criminals to conduct mass surveillance and steal trade secrets and personal data.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.
A version of this editorial appears in print on March 23, 2016, on page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Waiting for Round 2 in the Phone Fight.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
What New Rules on Retirement Savings Mean for Investors
If Cruz Keeps This Pace, Trump Wont Get a Majority of Delegates
Model in Gucci Ad Is Deemed Unhealthily Thin by British Regulator
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
