Get recommendations from New York Times reporters and editors, highlighting great stories from around the web. What Were Reading emails are sent twice a week.
How does Robert Caro put his sweeping, majestic biographies together? It begins with a page in a notebook, a pen and patience, says Mr. Caro, who is writing his fifth volume on the Shakespearean life of Lyndon B. Johnson, and whose biography of Robert Moses, The Power Broker, captured the twisted glories and failures of 20th century New York. In this absorbing interview, Mr. Caro speaks about reporting, the charting of eyeballs on screens, and how time=truth. He wanted to see if Moses succeeded in keeping people of color away from Jones Beach, so he and his wife, Ina, went to the big parking lot with steno pads. They counted many whites, a few others, almost no blacks. See, I was learning all this stuff, Mr. Caro says. Now it sounds like I know it. But Im learning this stuff one thing at a time.  Jim Dwyer
Rich Mogull, a security consultant, writes that the F.B.I.s request to Apple to hack the iPhone of one of the San Bernardino attackers could define the boundaries of our civil rights for generations. Its never about one phone. There will another case and another phone and another law enforcement request. Once the tools exist, theyll leak, Mr. Mogull argues, and then itll also be bad guys hacking into phones, and well all be less secure.  Kenneth Chang
The long-running reality show The Bachelor and its partner The Bachelorette reveal much about romantic idealism and the premium our culture places on love. They also offer a microcosm for the unwieldy discussions about diversity. Theyve never had a leading man or woman of color, nor have most contestants of color made it past a few weeks. Fusion tracked down as many black contestants as it could find and asked them to share insights and reflections from their time on the show.
How come Kendrick Lamars Grammy performance was almost universally hailed as brilliant while Beyoncs similarly themed Super Bowl performance was subjected to multitudes of think pieces and backlash? Misogynoir, says a co-founder of Black Lives Matter Toronto.  Ashley Southall
Personality tests like Myers-Briggs have always inspired a certain amount of dread and anxiety in me. Ive never liked the either/or dimensions of the questions or the prospect that decision-makers use it to create pre-determinations about people (especially when those people are me). So I took some comfort in learning about the tests curious familial origins, the slim scientific evidence for its usefulness and the fact that even some consultants at McKinsey arent crazy about it.  Michael Roston
Downton Abbey is a Sunday night treat that I will miss. And the sharp lines delivered by the dowager countess, played magnificently by Maggie Smith, have been a highlight. With the PBS show winding down, Slate has compiled some of her finest one-line barbs aimed at family members, guests of the estate, and, sometimes, even herself.  Lynda Richardson
Apple Inc, Ashley Southall, Blacks, Caro, Robert A, Computer Security, Downton Abbey (TV Program), Financial Times, Fusion, Gothamist, Janaya Khan, Knowles, Beyonce, Lamar, Kendrick, MacWorld, Michael Roston, Misogynoir, Moses, Robert, Myers-Briggs personality test, Reality Television, Slate, Smith, Maggie, The Bachelor (TV Program), The Bachelorette (TV Program)
