Mac Ransomware Attack Exposes Vulnerability of Apple Users - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|Mac Ransomware Attack Exposes Vulnerability of Apple Users
Mac Ransomware Attack Exposes Vulnerability of Apple Users
An Apple Store in New York. Mac users are facing new security threats to their operating systems.
For the first time, security experts say, a dangerous form of software called ransomware has successfully targeted a Mac operating system, piercing an image of safety that Apple customers had long enjoyed.The attack, while noteworthy, affected a relatively small number of people and doesnt mean that typical Mac users should panic, experts say.The software, when installed on a victims computer, denies a user access to files unless a ransom is paid: about $400. It targets files that users would most likely find important: photos, videos, Excel spreadsheets and Word documents.Two analysts from the California-based security firm Palo Alto Networks, Claud Xiao and Jin Chen, discovered on Friday that the ransomware was infecting downloads of Transmission, a legitimate BitTorrent file-sharing application, they said in a blog post.
About 6,500 users had downloaded the infected software over the weekend, a Transmission official told Forbes. Thats a small fraction of overall Mac users; Apple sold 5.31 million Macs in the first quarter of 2016.Attackers had compromised Transmissions website, changing its download link to include both the Transmission software and the ransomware, according to Ryan Olson, the threat intelligence director at Palo Alto Networks. The analysts found it about four hours after it was first uploaded, he said.
Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Such attacks are more common on machines running Windows, which has far more users, and have grown increasingly common in the past six to 12 months, Mr. Olson said. But even though Apple has had a good record of keeping dangerous software off computers, the successful attack could decrease user confidence, he said.Its important to be aware that nothing is 100 percent, he said in a telephone interview. And every time we find a new one of these, thats just another signal that 100 percent is not possible.Apple revoked a certificate that allowed the software to be installed on Macs, according to Reuters, and Transmission removed the download link from its website on March 5, Palo Alto Networks said.The ransomware, named KeRanger, would sleep for three days after being downloaded before encrypting the victims files, Mr. Olson said.Such attacks have had destructive effects, largely because they often work. In February, a hospital in Los Angeles paid hackers $17,000 in Bitcoin after its computer system was down for over a week.Computers running Windows are often infected when users click a malicious link in an email or one hidden in an advertisement. Once their machines are infected, users often have no choice but to meet the hackers demands.Mac users have historically enjoyed more security from malicious applications, Mr. Olson said. Apple has a lot of gates in the way to prevent that from being successful, he said.
While Apple and Transmission responded quickly to limit the damage, the episode illustrates the value of backing up important files, Mr. Olson said. The effect of ransomware is much like a laptop falling into the river  the damage can be limited if your important files exist somewhere else, he said.
A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 2016, on page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Business Briefing; Software Demanding a Ransom Targets Mac Operating System.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Justice Dept. Appeals Ruling in Apple iPhone Case in Brooklyn
Supreme Court Declines to Hear Apples Appeal in E-Book Pricing Case
Los Angeles Hospital Pays Hackers $17,000 After Attack
Justice Dept. Appeals Ruling in Apple iPhone Case in Brooklyn
Supreme Court Declines to Hear Apples Appeal in E-Book Pricing Case
Los Angeles Hospital Pays Hackers $17,000 After Attack
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
