Hackers Release More Data From Arizona Police - The New York Times
Hackers on Wednesday publicly exposed for the second time information they claimed to have stolen from the computer systems and personnel of the Arizona state police, in a continuation of a nearly two-month hacking spree.
A hacker group known as Lulz Security last week leaked case files, phone numbers and addresses of officers from the department in what it said was a response to the states tough laws aimed at illegal immigrants. The latest cache contained material from officers personal e-mail accounts, including humiliating dirt, according to a statement posted on the Pirate Bay, a site for users of the file-sharing tool BitTorrent, which the hackers used to distribute the data.
A spokesman for the Arizona Department of Public Safety said it was looking into the hackers claims and whether its systems had been breached.
The hackers no longer call themselves Lulz Security, or LulzSec for short, after disbanding last weekend and rejoining the larger hacker collective Anonymous. They are now working under a new banner they call AntiSec, protesting corruption and censorship.
One of the police departments spokesmen was singled out for attack in the latest data release for bragging about the departments security upgrades, promising the hackers would be caught and calling them a cyber terrorism group.
The same fate will meet anyone else who tries to paint us as terrorists in an Orwellian attempt to pass more pro-censorship or racial-profiling police state laws, the group warned in its statement.
It also said it had spared one former officer from having his personal information exposed because it learned that he was a Navajo and planned on suing the department for racial discrimination.
The disclosure followed the release on Tuesday of a pile of stolen content tied to a variety of organizations, including the governments of Brazil, Australia, Anguilla and Zimbabwe; a right-wing Colombian police unit; and Universal Music and Viacom. In a statement, the group said the action was retaliation against corrupt Governments (in our world this is all Governments) and corrupt companies.
Dealbook: Unprofitable Square Valued at $1.6 Billion
Visit the Technology section for complete coverage of the industry. 
