The Secret Life of Passwords: Reporter's Notebook - 
Ian Urbina wrote an article about the secret life of passwords for the Nov. 23 Times Magazine. Interactive videos accompanied the piece, and The Times invited readers to share stories about their passwords. Here, Mr. Urbina provides a sense of the story behind the story.
The idea for this story bubbled up about five years ago. I always suspected that while there was much to hate about passwords, there was also another side to them  something hidden inside these codes, not just behind them.
It seemed to me that within the collection of passwords that most of us carry around there is a subspecies of meaning.
What looked like the exact wrong moment to ask strangers about such a private topic often proved most fruitful. Making small talk in a dentists waiting room, riding the Acela, filling the lull during Thanksgiving dinner with in-laws
 people readily opened up partly because I caught them off guard.
In discussing their cyber-mnemonics, people told me that they felt a catharsis of sorts. With so much information flowing over us, so many gadgets to tame, so many passwords to manage, renew and not write down, the topic seemed to soothe the ire.
These passwords were like clown cars. Open the door and an impossible amount came spilling out. A man wrote to me that he was confused as to why he used for his password the name of a summer camp where he was sexually abused as a boy. Another explained how his password was tied to the model of his first handgun. Others told me their passwords were the name of a family dog who was killed by an errant driver, the brand of a drum set lost when a childhood home burned down and the name of a chemistry teacher who inspired a career.
Gathering all of the information was a slow process. Many people were willing to tell me their stories by email. But just as many insisted on discussing them only by phone or in person.
I always tried to convert subjects into helpers. Clever people, left-brain types, tend to travel in packs. So any time I found good subjects, I asked if they would forward an email query from me to their friends. For higher altitude, I turned to academics situated at the intersection of anthropology, technology and psychology.
Somewhere along the way, I heard from a hacker friend of mine who used to work at Microsoft. He told me about what the financial-services firm Cantor Fitzgerald went through shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks. He described how, not but hours after the planes struck, Howard Lutnick, the chief executive of that company, had to call the families of the dead and ever so gently collect from them personal trivia about their missing loved ones in order to help a team of Microsoft technicians hack the passwords of dozens of the firms most important accounts. My friend said I could not attribute the anecdote to him. So I called Mr. Lutnick directly. He cried while recounting the experience during an hourlong conversation.
Throughout the reporting process, I found myself intrigued by broader questions about whether there might actually be a certain deeper logic to the irrationality, patterns in the misbehavior or a reason that we so often do what the experts say not to. But the vignettes that people offered were the truly addictive element. Before long I had more than I could fit in my story.
I eventually shared a version of the story with my colleague Leslye Davis, a Times video reporter. She liked it and began working on the amazing multimedia presentation that resulted. The finished product by Ms. Davis (and her editor, Nancy Donaldson) was an unusual wedding of form and function. It served as an ideal complement to the written article. The double exposure silhouettes mimicked the mix of anonymity and intimacy that I found in passwords. Animating the silhouettes with a combination of colorful textures and concrete images conveyed a central point of the article: that people are essentially carriers of stories, that passwords are secretly packed with keepsake emotions.
Once the visuals and the story were ready, Josh Williams, a graphics editor, and Rumsey Taylor, a web designer, had to make it all fit together in a way that readers could experience in a new way. They wanted to make the visuals bigger and yet more integrated with the words, rather than just some small appendage to them. Oh, and they had about a week to do it.
There was something oddly affirming in reporting this topic. It felt like a rare opportunity to explore how humans are creative and sentimental creatures, how we invent quirky routines and clever contraptions for everyday life, how we beautify even our shackles. And since the story ran, the delight of it all has continued. A dozen or so readers per week, from the farthest corners (Qatar, Ireland, Brazil, Norway), have been emailing me their keepsake stories.
Times Insider takes readers behind the scenes of  newsroom to show how its journalists around the globe work and how decisions are made. Read more 
No More Sea Blindness: Covering Stowaways on a Lawless Ocean
1943 | In Tehran, The Timess International Edition Is Born
Military Exercises and Paranoia in West Texas: A Reporters Notebook
Times Editorial Page Editor Andrew Rosenthal on Trump Campaign
Carnival sideshow, yes. But also dangerous and irresponsible.Readmore
Reporter Nicholas Casey writes about how surprisingly well he blended in with the subjects of his recent piece about a block in East Harlem.Readmore
Mark Bulik takes a look at the first time that Bob Dylan was mentioned in The Times in a profile written by Robert Shelton.Readmore
The reporters Jodi Kantor and David Streitfeld provided insight into their reporting on Amazon and its fast-paced, sometimes punishing, culture.Readmore
An Outpouring of Reader Reflection After the Death of Oliver Sacks
When Oliver Sacks, the neurologist and author, died of a cancer, Times readers took to the online comments section of his obituary to share what he meant to them.Readmore
