These Apps Promise to Encrypt Your Smartphone Communications - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Personal Tech|These Apps Promise to Encrypt Your Smartphone Communications
These Apps Promise to Encrypt Your Smartphone Communications
THE topic of smartphone security and secure communication is front and center these days, thanks to the battle between Apple and the F.B.I. over opening up an iPhone used by one of the San Bernardino, Calif., mass attackers.The case has raised questions about what means people might have to protect their mobile data, shining the spotlight on the many apps that promise secure emailing, messaging and more.Signal, one of the best known private messaging apps, is free on iOS and Android. Its makers promote it with the slogan privacy is possible, and it uses end-to-end encryption, ensuring that only the recipient of the communications can read them. Its encryption and privacy protections are highly rated by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights group.
Signal is one of the best-known private messaging apps.
Signals users can send secure messages and make Internet voice calls with their existing phone number, and theres no need to set up an account. The app is straightforward to use, with large icons and controls and large, easy-to-read text.To talk, both parties must have Signal installed. And for an extra level of protection, which takes a little getting used to, both parties are shown a random pair of words that allows them to double-check that the other user is the right person. The technique brings spy movies to mind, but its a strong reminder that you are taking part in a secure call.
Threema delivers a similar service with a few more features. It also has end-to-end encryption, which is applied to all communication including text messages and files and images sent via the service. Theres no voice call capability, but users can send voice messages. Both sender and recipient must have Threema installed.Additionally, Threema allows users to hold group chats and to pose a question as a poll to group members. Theres no need to open an account to use the app, because each user is assigned a random ID that isnt necessarily connected to an email address or phone number.Theres more to learn within Threema in terms of controls and menus, but theyre relatively easy to master. The app is available on iOS, Android and Windows Phone, and costs $3 ($2 on Windows).Wickr Me, which is free on iOS and Android, is something of a celebrity in this class of apps because it was featured in an Iggy Azalea music video. It also has fun touches, including the ability to add stickers, graffiti and filters to photos.But at its heart, Wickr Me is a secure messaging app. Users can set an expiration time for messages, and it offers encryption for voice, text and video messages. A shredder function promises to securely erase all deleted messages and media from your device. Wickr Me also allows for anonymous use, so not even Wickrs makers know who its users are.
Wickr Me offers encryption for voice, text and video messages.
For a more traditional secure email app, check out ProtonMail. Free on iOS and Android, ProtonMail looks like a typical email app  except that all emails sent and received through it are encrypted. When you sign up for a free account, its emphasized that if you forget your passwords, theres no way you can retrieve your emails.The apps single purpose of delivering secure emails means ProtonMail is not the fanciest app in the world, but its easy to use. The app works best when the sender and receiver both have ProtonMail, but there is a way to send encrypted messages from inside the app to more standard email addresses.
Despite its high security levels, ProtonMail looks like any other email app.
All of these apps help augment the encryption that may already be built into your device. (Its worth checking through your phones settings to familiarize yourself with its privacy and security features.)
Some secure messaging apps may be misused, which is why many of them ask upon sign-up that you wont use them for illegal purposes. And remember  theres no such thing as perfect security, particularly if you lose your phone.Quick CallCola is a new messaging app (not one that promotes itself for its encryption) with the aim of simplifying the business of sending texts. As well as traditional message chats, Cola has bubbles that give people access to extras like polls, a friend locator and a neat When can we meet? system for quickly arranging group meet-ups. Its fun to use and free on iOS, but is available only in the United States for now.
A version of this article appears in print on March 24, 2016, on page B7 of the New York edition with the headline: Encryption by App Adds Security to Smartphones.
Were interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
Checklists and Tips to Help Streamline Spring Cleaning
A collection of App Smart columns published in The New York Times.
Keeping the Political Wool From Being Pulled Over Your Eyes
After You Strengthen Your Passwords, Heres How to Store Them
More Fun on Your Wrist With New Apps for the Apple Watch
Here Come the iPhone 7 and iOS 10 Apps: What to Try First
Checklists and Tips to Help Streamline Spring Cleaning
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
