Security researchers have found thousands of photos from searches within the Google Images site that have been infected with malicious code. In many cases, clicking on one of these poisoned images triggers a script that makes it seem like the computer has become infected with viruses. Another Web site pops up trying to wheedle your credit-card number in exchange for fake antivirus software.
The Krebs on Security blog fully explains how the poisoned-image scam works, along with a comment from a Google spokesman about the companys efforts to detect the malware. If your Web browser is hijacked by one of these scripts, force-quit the program by pressing the Control-Shift-Esc keys to call up the Windows Task Manager. On the Applications tab, select the name of your browser program and click the End Task button.
For overall protection, make sure your computer is running a regularly updated antivirus program from a legitimate security company. PCMag.com has reviews of recent security suites. Script-blocking add-ons like NoScript for Mozilla Firefox can also stop unwanted scripts from hijacking your Web browser.
Mac users are not immune. To force-quit the browser on a Mac, press the Option-Command-Esc keys, click on the browser program in the box and click the Force Quit button. The Sophos Security site has information for Mac users. Apple recently released a security update for Mac OS X designed to squash the fake MacDefender antivirus malware.
Gadgetwise is a blog about everything related to buying and using tech products. From figuring out which gadget to buy and how to get the best deal on it to configuring it once its out of the box, Gadgetwise offers a mix of information, analysis and opinion to help you get the most out of your personal tech.
All the regular features on the Gadgetwise blog can now be found on the Personal Tech section front. Thank you for reading.Readmore
FX-Sport VR1 Programmable Personal Trainer Headphones are a smart concept  a pair of headphones with a built-in coach, or virtual competitor. Readmore
Online file storage services like Dropbox let you share files with people who do not have an account with the company.Readmore
Q&A: Revealing Your Location (or Not) to Mobile Apps
Mobile apps may have useful reasons for requesting your location information, while others just want to show you local advertising.Readmore
Amazons store for Android apps has a Test Drive feature that lets you see an app in action before you buy or download it.Readmore
