U.S. Guidelines Aim to Bolster Software Security - 

Technology|U.S. Guidelines Aim to Bolster Software Security
The Homeland Security Department unveiled a new system of guidance on Monday intended to help make the software behind Web sites, power grids and other services less susceptible to hacking.The system includes an updated list of the top 25 programming errors that enable todays most serious hacks. It adds new tools to help software programmers eliminate the most dangerous types of mistakes and enable organizations to demand and buy more secure products.The effort to improve software security has been three years in the making, according to Robert A. Martin, principal engineer at Mitre, a technology nonprofit organization that conducts federal research in systems engineering.The costs of flaws or omissions that make software susceptible to attack was highlighted by a number of recent attacks that resulted in the theft of credit card information, user names and passwords from government and banking sites.During an online news conference, government officials pointed out that a wide range of stakeholders had an interest in seeing the top 25 errors addressed, and they stressed the need for better training and education for people writing software.
Officials also noted that organizations are under persistent attack.The Homeland Security Departments hope is that the program, which is voluntary, will make it easier for companies and agencies to better secure their corners of cyberspace and contribute to building safer global networks.Were going after root cause issues, said a senior department official, who declined to be named because he was speaking before the announcement had been made. You can make your enterprise more resilient from the people who would attack you.The guidance could spur a long-awaited shift in the technology industrys approach to computer security, which puts software security at the heart, in the place of network security, said Jeremiah Grossman, chief technology officer of WhiteHat Security, a firm that helps companies secure their Web sites. Many organizations do not recognize that software security should be the focus, he said, which is why you see the bulk of the security dollars spent on defense flowing to firewall and antivirus products, and precisely why the current wave of breaches keep happening.Alan Paller, director of research at the SANS Institute, a nonprofit research and education organization, emphasized during the presentation on Monday that it was a first step and much work still needed to be done, especially with training.The top 25 list was created by SANS and Mitre with the help of top software security experts in the United States and Europe. It includes programming errors that have been used in a number of recent hacking attacks.No. 1 on the list is a programming mistake that allows so-called SQL-injection attacks on Web sites, which were successfully used by the hacker group LulzSec. That group was able to use the flaws to cause databases to spit out user names and passwords from Web sites, including one associated with the F.B.I.s InfraGard program and NATOs online bookstore.The list also warns about the type of error that allowed hackers to steal several hundred thousand credit card numbers from a Citigroup site recently.The guidance framework will include vignettes for industries like e-commerce, banking and manufacturing, and will highlight for them which programming errors are of greatest concern in the types of technologies they use.Companies that make tools to test software for dangerous programming mistakes are already beginning to incorporate the framework into their products, Mr. Paller said before the presentation. And eventually there will be services that help businesses evaluate whether the software they are considering has stood up to scrutiny.
Avoiding common programming mistakes is vital to fending off todays worst attacks, Mr. Paller said. This is the only way to get around zero days, he said, referring to attacks that make use of software vulnerabilities that are unknown and, therefore, cannot be fixed quickly with patches. The only possible defense is to stop the error from being in the software in the first place.


