22 reasons why it’s good to be a millennial
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/mar/14/22-reasons-why-good-to-be-a-millennial
1. We’re changing the shape of the country Priced out of London, we will create new cultural centres that will make Britain much more interesting.   Related: MPs – don’t ignore social media as the next generation of voters are watching it closely | Helen Whitehouse    2. Mental health is as much of a priority as physical health Admittedly we’re the most stressed, anxious generation, but every day we’re opening up discussions around mental health and making it less of a taboo. From sites like Moodscope, which encourage us to record and measure our feelings, to brand new blog mindtank.co.uk, we’re making mental health a talking point. When megastar YouTuber Zoella talks to her 10 million followers about anxiety, you know that millennials are making changes. 3. We don’t smoke like our parents … Smoking in Britain has halved in the past 40 years. A big advantage of being broke is that most of us don’t have the spare cash for cigarettes. 4. … or drink In the past 10 years, the number of teetotal young adults has gone up by 40%, and 80% of adults are making an effort to drink less. 5. We’re ridiculously resourceful Yes, we’re lazy enough to Uber everywhere and Google everything – but if there isn’t an app that exists to help us get what we want, we make it. 6. We’ve changed celebrity culture Baby boomers might look at us and think that we’re obsessed with fame, but actually we’re the ones who decide who becomes famous. Record companies and film studios aren’t in charge any more, and any aspiring act needs an online following if they want to get signed. How did the YouTubers become so successful? Because the millennials were the ones who wanted to watch them. 7. We set the news agenda     A Black Lives Matter protest in Seattle. Photograph: David Ryder/Reuters    Millennials share the stories they want to hear on social media, which is why we were talking about Ferguson and the #BlackLivesMatter movement before it was being discussed on UK TV. (However, this did lead to thousands of us spending the afternoon watching pedestrians trying to leap over a puddle.) 8. We can pick our own priorities Other generations either lived to work, or worked to live – they had families to provide for, or millions to make. But most of us are just supporting ourselves, and we’re suspicious of greed. So if we want to, we can dedicate our lives to making a difference instead of making money. After all, if there’s one thing we have a lot of, it’s time.   Related: We were told free higher education was a dream. Today we march to make it reality | Anabel Bennett    9. Technology allows us to enjoy cultural DIY Once upon a time teens would send tapes to record labels and wait – now they stick them on SoundCloud for all to hear. As millennials, we have access to the newest and most interesting acts of creativity first, because we know where to look for them. 10. Our authenticity is celebrated Social media makes us all accountable, which can feel a little bit 1984, but it also means there’s never been a better time to be yourself. Instagram star Essena O’Neill captured this mood when she admitted, to great public applause, that her life online was emotionally fraudulent and she was deeply unhappy People are so excited about each other’s “realness” that taking a picture of yourself with no makeup on was one of the hottest trends of the decade. 11. Exciting parts of the past are new to us – and we can discover them at any time     The Beatles: now available on Spotify. Photograph: PA    When the Beatles appeared on Spotify over Christmas, people in their 20s who experience all their music digitally had a way to connect with one of the biggest bands of all time. You might sneer at someone who has never listened to the Beatles, but there is nothing more exciting than old music that is new to you. 12. We’ve got a handle on the relationship between money and happiness We don’t think greed is good, but we don’t think it’s that bad either. Not having any money means that we really know its value, and we don’t pursue wealth for its own sake. We just want enough cash to be able to pay the rent. 13. Baby boomers are our buddies We’re closer to other generations than ever before. We watch the same films and wear the same trainers, and they’re less likely to go on about how things were “in my day” because it’s still their day, and ours too. And they love us because we know the secrets of the broadband router. 14. We’re having kids later – or not at all … Across Europe, birthrates are falling, which is alarming economists. However, I suspect it’s also a sign that more millennials than ever are thinking very seriously about whether or not they want to start a family, and are doing what’s right for them instead of following an established path. 15. If we want change, we can campaign for it     Caroline Criado-Perez successfully campaigned to get Jane Austen’s image on the £10 note. Photograph: Murdo Macleod for the Guardian    Lucy-Anne Holmes campaigned for No More Page 3. The Sun stopped publishing pictures of topless women in 2015. Writer and millennial Caroline Cirado-Perez used social media to make sure the Bank Of England included at least one woman (Jane Austen) on £10 pound notes. We are the change we want to see in the world – and sometimes we see the results of our activism in our change. 16. Most of us are better educated than ever about privilege and equality We have so much information at our disposal that we know there’s no excuse for not educating ourselves about the world and everyone in it. Millennials are the ones growing up in, what is broadly, an increasingly tolerant culture, and we’re having loud conversations about racism, sexism, homophobia and transphobia. 17. When it comes to fashion, style and beauty, there are infinite ways to be – and to access them We can use Instagram to check out street style in Seoul, watch fashion weeks as they happens with a better view than anyone on the front row, and customise our own clothes. There is no one shop, label or look that is “cool”. Wearing your nan’s clothes is cool. Mixing Chanel with vintage CA is cool. If this doesn’t feel new, watch Pretty In Pink. In the 80s, style rebel Andie was made to feel like the poor kid from the wrong side of the tracks. In 2016, hers is the wardrobe everyone wants to steal. 18. We feel younger for longer Millennials can enjoy youth culture for longer. Our parents might have been made to feel bad if they weren’t “settled” at 28 – but the 28-year-old of today might be an intern, or eat ice-cream for breakfast, or spend their disposable income on amassing an enviable collection of Lego. 19. TV’s golden age (and on-demand TV) means we’re allowed to stay in     Digital streaming has made staying in the new going out. Photograph: Jonathan Nackstrand/AFP/Getty Images    I believe club culture dominated the 90s because if you didn’t go out with your whistle and glow stick, you’d have to stay in and watch Bullseye. Going out is an expensive, vomity exercise in diminishing returns, and for the first time the young are allowed to feel OK about staying in because the TV is too good to miss. 20. Travel has never been easier, cheaper or more accessible Attitudes to international travel have changed beyond recognition, and we can visit countries our grandparents could only read about. Our world has shrunk. We’re so lucky to be part of a generation that could, in theory, be half way across the world before the weekend if we wanted to. 21. We’re just old enough to appreciate our privacy It might look like we’re spilling our guts and revealing our locations in every single social space available, but we just about remember the pre-online era, and understand the importance of keeping some things to ourselves. Unlike the next generation, who will never know a time when they didn’t have the internet in their pockets. 22. For us, experiences mean more than stuff We’re not used to owning things because we don’t have the spare cash to buy them or space to put them, so we pour our energy into supporting the “sharing economy”. We don’t even have anything to throw away – we’re good for the environment. Mug a millennial and you’d be lucky to get a bus pass and a coffee receipt. Please don’t take our phones though – we live on those.
