Boot up: RIM's bad numbers, EU to bite Samsung, Apple and patents, and more
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/blog/2012/dec/21/technology-links-newsbucket
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team Patents: that word does not mean what you think it means  TechPinions Steve Wildstrom, on the USPTO invalidating Apples patent (see below):   In this case, the challenge was filed by Samsung and, as is the normal practice, its challenge was considered without any response from Apple (thats what ex parte means.) [Matt] Macari cites USPTO statistics (PDF) that such request are granted over 90% of the time. Apple now gets to come in an defend its patent before the USPTO - Samsung isnt actually a party to the case. In a bit under 70% of such cases, some of the claims of the original patent are invalidated in reexamination while the rest are upheld; the patent in question contains 21 claims. About 11% of the time, all claims are rejected, leaving the patent invalid.   Macari, mentioned there, writes for The Verge, and is an intellectual property lawyer by training. RIM 3Q fiscal 2013 quarterly results  RIM (PDF)  Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 was $2.7bn, down 5% from $2.9bn in the previous quarter and down 47% from $5.2bn in the same quarter of fiscal 2012. The revenue breakdown for the quarter was approximately 60% for hardware, 36% for service and 4% for software and other revenue.  During the quarter, RIM shipped approximately 6.9m BlackBerry smartphones and approximately 255,000 BlackBerry PlayBook tablets.   Thats the lowest smartphone shipments since the same period in 2009. It had an operating loss of $230m, and most crucially of all lost subscribers - 80m previous quarter, 79m this. That last figure is the really dangerous one.  Also: RIMs quarter ended 1 December. The BB10 phones are being announced on 30 January. So thats two months of the current quarter without new products.  EU to file formal complaint against Samsung  MarketWatch  European Union regulators plan to issue a formal complaint against Samsung Electronics within weeks in its anti-trust probe over patents, EUs competition chief Joaquin Almunia said Thursday.  The commission, which acts as the EUs competition watchdog, is investigating whether Samsungs past use of injunctions against Apple violated antitrust rules.  We will issue a statement of objections very soon, I dont know if at the end of this year or at beginning of next year, because we are in the last step of our internal procedure, Almunia said, referring to the formal charge sheet issued by the commission.   In case you havent followed it: Samsung used standards-essential patents to fight Apple in court battles, seeking injunctions (sales bans). But if you submit your patent for a standard, you agree that youll always license it, judged by a court if necessary. An injunction is in effect a refusal to let the court decide or to license.  This also confirms that the reason Samsung stopped seeking injunctions on SEPs on Tuesday (but not seeking injunctions on non-SEPs, or on SEPs in other countries) was because it got wind it was in trouble with the EU. (Thanks @rquick for the link.) Google sweetened Motorola deal with Arris by promising to cap liability In TiVos billion-dollar+ patent claim  TechCrunch  In an October court filing, TiVo claimed that Motorola is responsible for massive production of infringing DVRs that dwarfs the numbers of accused products at issue in TiVos previous cases. The filing also states, TiVos damages claim is likely to run into the billions of dollars, and it says that TiVo will try to get the courts to stop Motorola from selling the allegedly infringing products. (Motorola has its own patent-infringement claims against TiVo.)  The threat of a huge patent lawsuit would probably cast a cloud over any acquisition talks, but Stanzione said Google has actually agreed to cap Arris liability in the case to a very small number. He didnt say what that number was, but when one of the analysts on the call asked if Arris might be liable for $1 billion in damages, Stanzione laughed and suggested that it was much lower than that -- and he added that TiVo wont necessarily win the case.   And so the cost of the Motorola Mobility acquisition goes up again, since Googles ready to step in and cough up for Arris. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.) This is the web right now  The Oatmeal At least, the state of the web in winter 2012. (Thanks @lollygagging for the link.) Apple stands to lose another patent crucial to its battle with Samsung  Ars Technica  While Apple had a stunning $1.05 billion trial victory against Samsung this summer, things generally havent been going its way since the August verdict. On Monday, US District Judge Lucy Koh ruled that Apples case wasnt strong enough to win an injunction.  With Koh due to publish a post-trial order about damages any day now, a key Apple patent is being threatened at the US Trademark and Patent Office. US Patent No. 7,844,915, the patent covering Apples pinch to zoom smartphone navigation feature, may be invalidated. In a patent reexam, examiners discovered multiple pieces of prior art that they found should reject Apples claims.   Some people have been suggesting that the Apple-Samsung jury should have invalidated the patent, which is nonsensical - theyre not patent examination officers. Its likely Apples patents will still be in place (just) by the time Judge Koh finishes. The question is, will they be valid by the time it reaches the appeal court - and will that have an effect on the appeal? (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.) Nokia to resume development of 10-inch Windows RT tablet, say Taiwan makers  Digitimes  Nokia has talked about cooperation with Microsoft, Qualcomm and Compal Electronics to resume development of a 10-inch Windows RT tablet, and is likely to unveil the model at the 2013 Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, during February 25-28, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers.   If anyone can see sense in this, please explain how a loss-making company would benefit from making a 10in tablet, which is a worse market than ever to compete in since the arrival of 7in tablets. More to the point: where are the 7in tablets running Microsoft software - and would that be Windows Phone, Windows RT or Windows 8? (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.) Examining Apples security efforts in 2012  TidBits Rich Mogull:   The slightest Apple security or privacy glitch creates an instant media frenzy, the online equivalent of the local news telling parents that drinking water will poison their children. 2012 also saw the first widespread, albeit non-damaging, Mac malware. BYOD (bring your own device) is the biggest hot-button issue in enterprise security, and is predominantly driven by user demands to support iPhones, iPads, and Macs. I can no longer walk into a meeting with enterprise IT without at least some Macs or iPads in the room, officially supported or not.  This is a nearly complete reversal from just five years ago... Another strong indicator of iOS security is that digital forensics firms, those who produce the software used by law enforcement to recover data from mobile phones and computers, are as yet unable to crack data protected by the highest level of iOS encryption enabled by default (for email and participating apps) when you set a good passcode.   He reckons Apple security generally is better now than at any time hes been examining it. You can follow Guardian Technologys linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service.
