Flora, fauna and fortitude: the extraordinary mission of Maria Sibylla Merian
https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/2016/apr/01/flora-fauna-and-fortitude-the-extraordinary-mission-of-maria-sibylla-merian
In the history of art there are few more singular practitioners than the German naturalist Maria Sibylla Merian (1647-1717). Her work straddles the territories of art and science – it includes some of the most striking, even disturbing, visions I have ever seen. Her life-size studies capture the insects of tropical Suriname, on the northeastern coast of South America, and the plants that sustained them. Pictured in various states of metamorphosis, the insects are explosively beautiful: weird, vibrant, energetic even nightmarish. Metamorphosis Insectorum Surinamensium caused a sensation across Europe when it was first published in 1705. The plates form the basis of an exhibition opening soon at the Queen’s Gallery, Buckingham Palace, a chance to see Merian’s watercolours in the royal collection that were bought by George III. Merian intrigues scholars but hers is hardly a household name. The hybrid quality of her work as a naturalist hindered her posthumous reputation. As the Dictionary of Women Artists almost apologetically puts it: “The importance of Merian is based on a specific, perhaps feminine synthesis of an observant and at the same time contemplative view of nature.” In her time, Merian was prized for her contribution to entomology. Zoologists and botanists in the 19th century, however, were less interested in her discoveries, and she was seen as an innocuous painter of flowers and butterflies, though by no means a master of still life. Today, it’s her fusion of artistic endeavour and observation and the way in which her paintings defied Victorian categorisation that make her so fascinating. She is acclaimed as one of the greatest artist‑naturalists of her time.     Merian’s branch of west Indian cherry with Achilles morpho butterfly (1702-03)     Her life story would be remarkable by any standards, but for a woman living in 17th‑century Europe her personal achievements are astounding. Most notable female artists were the daughters of artists: Lavinia Fontana, Fede Galizia, Artemisia Gentileschi, Élisabeth Louise Vigée Le Brun, Angelica Kauffman. Art was a formidably difficult professional calling. The route to becoming an old master took long years of tuition, repetitive practice, access to naked models, exposure to the work of others, lots of travelling, as well as a long apprenticeship. Patronage guaranteed their livelihoods; exhibitions and critical interest secured their posthumous reputations. Only those female artists working in a family workshop could receive enough training and gain access to the otherwise prohibitively expensive materials they needed. So it was for Merian, growing up in Protestant Frankfurt, the youngest daughter of Matthäus, a Swiss-born printmaker and draughtsman. Matthäus owned a flourishing publishing house that specialised in lavishly illustrated books, featuring engravings by him, his children, his son-in-laws and apprentices. In 1641, he published one of the earliest sets of engravings of flower species. Following his death in 1650, Merian’s mother remarried the art dealer, engraver and still-life painter Jacob Marrell who taught Maria Sibylla alongside his sons.   Related: The 10 most subversive women artists in history    At a time when guild restrictions prevented her from training and practising in oil, Merian learned drawing, watercolour, still-life painting and copper-plate engraving in the family atelier. Whereas women were typically excluded from painting history and nudes, watercolour was deemed a suitably feminine and amateur pursuit and escaped censure. Merian published early: her first work was Neues Blumenbuch, a floral pattern book for embroidery, another highly decorous and reassuringly “feminine” art in which she was skilled. The men of her family travelled widely, exploring new ideas and seeking out patronage; as a dutiful daughter, meanwhile, Maria Sibylla stayed put. But she would learn much at the publisher’s workshop, an intellectual hub and place of great creativity. As her biographer Kim Todd explains in Chrysalis: Maria Sibylla Merian and the Secrets of Metamorphosis: “The business depended on the dreaming up of fresh ideas, always a risky endeavour when the only reading material above suspicion was the Bible. Some had doubts about whether anyone but ministers should even read that. A refuge for scientists, religious minorities, and visionaries, a publisher’s workshop drew free thinkers of every stripe.”     Merian’s grape vine with vine sphinx moth and satellite sphinx moth (1702-03)  Photograph: Royal Collection    Following her marriage, aged 18, to another painter and engraver, Johann Andreas Graff, the couple had two daughters and moved to Nuremberg where Merian juggled her schedule as a busy housewife, mother, artist and teacher. She continued to follow the orthodox German and Dutch still-life tradition, painting flowers and fruits decorated with butterflies. Insects were often used to bring life to a canvas, but Merian’s interest went deeper. Unusually, she would breed her own insects, collecting local caterpillars and observing their metamorphoses. She combined her skill as a flower painter with her scientific investigations, publishing studies of caterpillars. “Her focus on breeding, habitat and metamorphosis fits nicely with the domestic practice of a 17th-century mother and housewife,” observed the historian Natalie Zemon Davis, who cautions against reducing Merian’s preoccupation to an innate feminine response to nature. Merian’s pictures can be read as works of Protestant adoration. She had a deep reverence for nature, and saw the hand of God in the perfection of natural forms. She shared the Protestant view that he made nature to reveal his wonders, to make mortals praise and respect him. Merian’s spiritual quest was driven. Sensationally, in 1685, she ran away from her husband and Lutheran congregation, mother and daughters in tow, to West Friesland in the Dutch republic to join an austere anti-hierarchical Protestant sect, the Labadists. When Graff pursued her and appealed to her to return, the sect declared she was free from all marital obligations to a nonbeliever. He retreated to Nuremberg to pursue their divorce. Pietism held scholarly learning in contempt, but pictures of God’s works that might inspire wonder were acceptable as devotional aids to individual religious contemplation. Merian extended her observations to the metamorphosis of the frog. When it came to business, she was savvy. In 1791, she re-established herself in Amsterdam, where the comparative freedoms Dutch women enjoyed enabled her, despite being divorced, to run her own shop, educate her daughters and raise money for her next adventure. Amsterdam was the entrepot of global trade. Exciting exotic specimens arrived with the other tropical imports from the Dutch colonies and outposts. But dead insects in boxes only offered snapshots: what of their habitats and life cycles?     Merian’s frangipani plant with red cracker butterfly (1702-03)      In 1699, at the age of 52, Merian sold her paintings and made her will. She took a ship with her younger daughter for the Labadist colony of La Providence in Suriname. The two-month Atlantic voyage alone was perilous. La Providence was a fragile settlement. The northern Europeans were susceptible to tropical disease and their supplies from Holland were vulnerable to piracy. Even so, for two years mother and daughter carved out their own path, studying indigenous flora and fauna. Dutch imperialism was brutal – Africans were sold into the slave market, many of them set to work on sugar plantations. Merian would recall how she was helped by enslaved guides as she sailed up the Suriname river, venturing deep into the rainforest. “The forest grew together so closely with thistles and thorns, I sent slaves with hatchets ahead, so that they chopped an opening for me, in order to go through to some extent, which was nevertheless rather cumbersome.”    Insects were often used to bring life to a canvas, but Merian had a deeper interest in them    Merian was tough but not pitiless. Next to a depiction of a peacock flower she noted the use of the seeds as an abortifacent by female slaves. “Indeed they even kill themselves on account of the usual harsh treatment meted out to them; for they consider that they will be born again with their friends in a free state in their own country, so they told me themselves.” Still this is the only instance, alongside her criticisms of the planters’ obsession with their sugar crop, of Merian observing human behaviour in Suriname. Her primary mission was to understand, collect and depict the strange plants, insects and reptiles she discovered, capturing their stages of life. Eventually a weakening illness – malaria or yellow fever – forced Merian to return to Amsterdam where she raised the money to publish her findings four years later. Her tropical discoveries stunned European natural scientists. Merian was an original. She eschewed the received metaphorical associations of insects, such as the fly being an emblem of sinfulness or the butterfly signifying the resurrected soul. And she avoided the taxonomic order and classification that would be formalised by Swedish botanist Carl Linnaeus (1707-1778). Instead, Merian’s paintings conjure habitat, they contain narratives like proto-cartoons. The Suriname paintings have the power of graphic art – both exquisite and frightening. They are a fitting monument to such an unusual figure whose life, too, was a blaze of colour. Amanda Vickery is professor of history at Queen Mary University of London. Her Story of Women and Art is available on DVD. Maria Merian’s Butterflies opens at the Queen’s Gallery, London SW1A, on 15 April. royalcollection.org.uk
