Good data can help diagnose the health of cities around the world
https://www.theguardian.com/healthcare-network/2015/oct/12/good-data-health-cities
Living in a city can seriously affect your health, for better or worse. Many cities have extremes of good and bad health within their boundaries, and with one billion more people living in cities in 2014 than in 2000, it is increasingly important to understand why. Such understanding needs good data, which is also often required to gain funding, according to Amit Prasad, technical officer for urban health at the World Health Organisation’s Centre for Human Development in Kobe, Japan. A 1993 World Bank report promoted the idea of measuring returns on investment in health, which was then adopted by the Gates Foundation and national governments.    Related: How to create healthier cities – livechat    Yet data on urban health remains patchy, with comparisons between cities in different countries particularly difficult to access. WHO relies on locally-gathered data and the demographic and health surveys of the US Agency for International Development – the latter because it is collected in a standardised fashion. “The disadvantage is that they don’t cover a wide number of indicators,” says Prasad. Meanwhile, the extent and quality of locally-gathered data is usually linked to a country’s income, and often needs pulling together: “Brazil is a good example of having good data, but it is scattered across many data sets,” says Prasad. Given differences in quality and data collection methods, WHO does not try to compare different cities, but tracks how a city’s health changes over time. Cities often have a positive effect on people’s health, Prasad adds. “Urban areas can provide good infrastructure, better access to services, including safe water, education and of course health services.”  But many of the fastest-growing cities are in low-income countries with high degrees of inequality; in sub-Saharan Africa, 60% of the urban population live in slums and informal settlements. “We’re looking at issues that were critical in Europe in the 19th century, like water and sanitation,” he says. WHO has advised cities in such countries through programmes such as the Urban Health Equity Assessment and Response Tool, a guide for decision-makers. Other problems come to the fore in middle-income cities: “In Latin America, violence is one of the major determinants,” says Prasad. There, as in the Middle East, non-communicable lifestyle diseases are increasingly an issue. “By the time you come to the high-income countries, you have issues around ensuring better quality of life for ageing populations,” he adds.  There can also be stark variations between cities in the same country. The life expectancy for a man born in Glasgow is 72.6 years, the lowest in the UK and nearly a decade less than the 82.1 years for Kensington, Chelsea and Westminster. The difference for women is approximately seven years. The central London boroughs have among the highest male life expectancies in the UK and are also among its richest – there is a strong correlation between the wealth of an area and its health.  But the Glasgow Centre for Population Health, set up in 2004 to gather and analyse data on health and inequality, has found that Glasgow suffers worse health than Manchester and Liverpool, despite their similar profiles and histories. “Even when you take into account deprivation, there is still a level of excess mortality,” says David Walsh, a programme manager at the centre.  In investigating this, the centre has analysed existing data sets but also carried out surveys in Glasgow, Liverpool and Manchester, allowing it to test more than 40 possible explanations. This has led to two provisional models, the first involving inadequacies with the current data on deprivation: for example, benefit uptake rates record how many people fall below a threshold, not how far they are below it. Glasgow has particularly high levels of deaths from alcohol, drugs and suicide, indicating deep deprivation. The second covers specific factors, including housing. Large areas of Glasgow were demolished and rebuilt after the second world war, and new buildings were often of poor quality. There is also evidence of higher protective factors in England, including lower levels of suicide in Liverpool due to a stronger community spirit. “The key point is it’s not one of two things, it’s a whole range of contributory factors,” says Walsh. The centre has also produced an international comparison of Glasgow with Gothenburg in Sweden, another industrial maritime city, which is summarised in a short film. Twice as many Glaswegians as Gothenburgers eat at least five portions of fruit and vegetables a day, and the Scottish city’s air has lower levels of sulphur dioxide and nitrous oxide. However, men in Gothenburg live on average seven years longer than those in Glasgow, with a six-year gap for women. Glasgow has more people who drink excessively, more obesity and more teenage drug and alcohol usage. It also has 12 times as many teenage mothers and twice as many adults with no qualifications, which may contribute to poor health. Some of the differences may be due to differing social systems, says Gun Stigelius, development leader for the Majorna-Linné district of Gothenburg. Health promotion work, as well as a higher number of abortions help to explain lower levels of teenage motherhood, for example.  But despite many similarities between the two cities, Stigelius was surprised by the difference in life expectancy. Looking for reasons was difficult, due to differences in data collection: UK income is recorded for families, Sweden’s for individuals. “You can’t compare because you measure in different ways,” says Stigelius. Gothenburg, which like Glasgow has big internal differences in health, makes extensive use of data in setting policy. It used data on children’s teeth from compulsory check-ups to decide on more dental health education in the Angered and Östra Göteborg districts of the city. It has been difficult to track the scheme’s success, however, as the areas house many immigrants who move rapidly in and out of the region. Data is also used to plan new facilities. Noting a high level of mental health problems among the young, the city decided to open a specialised centre: “That was a direct reaction to the figures,” says Barbara Rubinstein, an epidemiologist for the Västra Götaland region that includes Gothenburg. Similarly, the location of a new hospital in Angered was based on a study showing that local people used healthcare services less than their needs suggested they should. “Our politicians and officers require health data before they can propose an action or decide on an action,” Rubinstein says. “In general, it’s regarded as a base for every action.”    Our politicians and officers require health data to propose or decide on an action … its a base for every action  Barbara Rubenstein, epidemiologist     The city-state Singapore, which has some of the best health outcomes in the world, makes extensive use of data in health. In designing its new basic health insurance scheme MediShield Life, which covers hospitalisation and some outpatient treatment with subsidised premiums for lower and middle-income households, it looked at patients’ current one-off payments and insurance coverage and use of Medisave and Medifund, the existing government schemes to fund healthcare. Singapore is also using the results of its healthcare research to change policy in other areas. It runs regular large-scale surveys on health, nutrition and behaviour. “Such data could serve as a useful feedback on the impact of intervention programmes implemented,” says a ministry of health spokesperson. “Behaviour differences in health across various neighbourhoods could also be identified for targeted health promotion strategies within smaller areas in Singapore.” The 2010 national nutrition survey found that Singaporeans were eating more saturated fat, too many refined carbohydrates and too few whole grains. It also found that 60% of people drank at least two drinks with added sugar every day – an average of 200 extra calories. So the nation’s health promotion board developed a five-year food strategy, introducing healthier options dining out and in supermarkets, as well as greater availability of less sweetened drinks. “The long-term goal is for people to make small changes in their diets to become accustomed to these healthier options, thus making the healthier choice the default choice,” says the spokesperson. The National Health Electronic Records scheme, which is being introduced gradually, will in time also provide the government with information. Join our network to read more pieces like this. And follow us on Twitter (@GdnHealthcare) to keep up with the latest healthcare news and views.
