How digital technology is transforming social care
https://www.theguardian.com/social-care-network/2014/nov/03/digital-technology-transforming-social-care
It’s not so long since “I didn’t come into social care to work with computers” was a common response to digital technology in the care sector. How things have changed. As part of Skills for Care’s ongoing work looking at digital capabilities in the adult social care sector, a research team asked over 500 managers and staff in adult social care services about their digital capabilities, experiences and attitudes. Our results showed that more than 95% used digital technology in their work, and the great majority are strongly positive about the potential of digital technology to improve efficiency and quality of care services. Unsurprisingly, digital technologies are most commonly used in business administration and communications. However, technology is also significantly impacting the delivery of care and support services. Three-quarters of organisations use digital technologies to plan and record services, and more than half use them directly with the people they support. They’re used to enhance communication between service users and their family and friends, to organise leisure activities for service users, and to help people plan their own care and support. One residential care home we visited has an all-encompassing digital reporting system, which has transformed the workplace. “Throughout the home we’ve got 10-inch tablet computers mounted on the wall and all information gets entered into them,” says the manager of the home. “There’s very little in terms of paperwork now. We use the tablets for care plans, risk assessments, health assessments, safeguarding, medication – everything, really. From the moment a resident gets up in the morning to when they go to bed, it’s documented on the system in real time.”  Staff, even those who had been nervous when the system was introduced, are all in agreement. “The only negative thing would be if I left this job and had to go back to a paper-based system,” says one employee. Mainstream cloud-based services such as Google Docs and social media are embedded in the sector: “Digital media is a natural part of everything we do,” says the manager of an organisation providing residential support for people with autism. “We use Google Docs for administration, and Facebook for communication. We have over 12,000 likes on our Facebook page. It’s how we get our message out into the world and it’s our main recruitment tool.” The organisation also uses Facebook as a reporting tool – support workers post about the day’s leisure activities for the residents, so families and friends can get an idea of what their loved ones are doing. Families are very positive about this use of social media, but there are problems communicating with the local authority: “Social workers can’t access Facebook or use Google Docs because of the IT restrictions at the local authority. So we have to send them things as email attachments, which is pretty frustrating.” Our research showed that constraints around local authority IT systems were one of the challenges of digital development, but the most frequently cited barrier for care providers overall was the cost of digital devices and internet connectivity. Services with mobile workforces were also extremely limited by poor broadband coverage. Another limitation cited by managers was staff digital skills – though this was disputed by many employees. While over half of managers felt that staff, particularly older ones, lacked some basic online skills, over 95% of staff expressed confidence in their own digital abilities. More work is needed to unpack the reasons for these divided views, but the enthusiasm of staff to engage with digital systems seems inarguable; the majority of staff used digital devices such as smartphones and tablets more extensively in their personal lives than at the workplace, and managers and staff were united in wanting to see more widespread use of digital technologies. The effectiveness of the peer support approach for introducing more digital technologies into the workplace was also widely recognised. Every social care organisation has digital enthusiasts, including managers, staff, volunteers and other people using their services. Digital champion programmes, such as those in the housing sector, may offer a promising model from which social care can learn. Our research suggests that focus should be on supporting learning and development for staff in a range of ways, including peer support in the workplace via digital champions, and options for improving access to shared resources, knowledge and experience. Skills for Care is working with partners to develop ways to implement these recommendations, so that the care sector can continue to develop to the best of its potential. “The whole world is going digital,” says one care assistant, “and we need to do the same.” Visit the Skills for Care website for more information, or Twitter @skillsforcare and @saradunnassoc. The learning and development hub is funded by Skills for Care. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out more here. Why not join our social care community? Becoming a member of the Guardian Social Care Network means you get sent weekly email updates on policy and best practice in the sector, as well as exclusive offers. You can sign up – for free – online here.
