Today's media stories from the papers
https://www.theguardian.com/media/2013/apr/04/1
Top eight stories on MediaGuardian     While most interactions with Facebook are on a personal level,  on-domain social communities are purpose-built solutions for brand interactions Photograph: Chris Jackson/Getty Images    Facebook: countdown to its Android phone Social networks collaboration with HTC expected to customise functions ranging from camera to home screen Online music licensing revenues pass radio Google Play and Xbox licensing agreements help digital revenues jump 32.2% in 2012, from £39.1m to £51.7m Fallon to take over Tonight Show from Leno Hosts mark long-anticipated late-night handover with West Side Story skit as network looks to avoid previous mistakes Tony Hall: size of BBC payoffs not right Criticism by corporations new chief follows predecessor George Entwistles £450,000 cheque after just 54 days in the job Ex-BBC driver charged with sex offences David Smith accused of offences that allegedly took place in 1984 and is the first suspect charged under Operation Yewtree The Voice v BGT: scheduling wars recommence BBC and ITV resume annual hostilities over Saturday night talent shows, with times moved and overlapping around 7pm slot Rovio doubles its revenues to £129m 45% of Angry Birds creators income now comes from merchandise rather than games Vdio streaming TV and film service goes live in the US and UK Launches as sister to streaming music service Rdio as step towards global entertainment platform Top comment on MediaGuardian Tony Hall has the PR skills to command the media circus Mark Borkowski: The new BBC ringmaster faces huge challenges, but can put PR at the front of his business without letting it dominate priorities Hot topics • Latest on press regulation• Latest on the BBC• Latest on News Corp Todays featured media jobs  Guardian News  Media – Scott Trust Bursary - JournalismLondon/permanent/full time Crown Prosecution Service - Press OfficerLondon/permanent/full time University of Oxford - Head of External Relations and MediaOxford/contract/full time For more jobs, career advice and workplace news visit guardianjobs.co.uk Media Monkeys pick of the day Paul OGrady had a hit for ITV with his show For The Love of Dogs. And now the former Lily Savage star will be back on the channel with the animal Oscars. Woof! The British Animal Honours 2013 – only slightly less catchy – will reward extra special animals that work in war zones, help people with disabilities and work with the police. Coming soon (maybe) ... Strictly Animal Magic. The Sun TV Biz P3 • More from Media Monkey Todays headlines The Guardian BBC bosses big payoffs not right, says Tony Hall. P5Digital deals bring record song royalties. P7Former BBC driver charged with sex offences. P10Harlequin auditor quits amid BBC row. P30Obituary: novelist and screenwriter Ruth Prawer Jhabvala. P3640 years of the mobile phone. G2 P6A month in Ambridge. G2 P19TV review: Scott  Bailey returns to ITV. G2 P21 Daily Telegraph BBC chiefs pledge to end bumper payoffs. P2US journalists press law plea. P19Editorial: BBC payoffs must end. P25Retiring The Archers editor Vanessa Whitburn: I was never asked to sex up the Radio 4 soap. P26Obituary: actor Milo OShea. P33Obituary: novelist and screenwriter Ruth Prawer Jhabvala. P33Scott  Bailey returns to ITV. P34Apples iTV to hit shops this year. Business P1Facebook bid to enter smartphone market. Business P3Maker of Angry Birds posts profits up 57%. Business P4 Financial Times Tech City champion quits as Downing Street adviser. P4Behind Beijings war on Apple is growing core of web dissent. P6Facebooks fight to keep its startup edge. P11Lex column: Is it possible to tweet the perfect earnings release? P14Facebook falters in trying to follow users on to mobiles. P18AutoTrader publisher appoints Trevor Mather as new chief executive. P20 The Times Vogue editor lifts lid on starving models. P3Press law will allow foreign regimes to silence journalists, David Cameron warned. P16New BBC chief will curb payoffs to top executives. P16Facebook to unveil social media phone. P19Footballer comedian jokes after warning. P21BBC driver charged with sex offences by Savile police. P24Tony Hall must tear down the BBC news monolith, says David Elstein. P28Mobile phone inventor gets a call. P43Obituary: novelist and screenwriter Ruth Prawer Jhabvala. P55Obituary: actor Milo OShea. P56Obituary: puppet designer and wife of Muppets creator Jim Henson, Jane Henson. P56 The Independent Tony Hall pledges to end big BBC payoffs. P12Former BBC driver charged with sex abuse in wake of Savile scandal. P12Jimmy Fallon to replace Jay Leno on Tonight Show. P31Vogue editor: models ate tissues to stay thin. P32Former BBC and Channel 4 head of drama John Yorkes top 10 tips for screenwriters. P36The week in radio. P43Obituary: actor Milo OShea. P49Trevor Mather new chief executive of AutoTrader publisher. P54 i Jimmy Fallon to take over NBCs Tonight Show from Jay Leno. P3Jeremy Kyle show turned Mick Philpott into a celebrity. P4Former BBC driver charged as part of Jimmy Savile inquiry. P10BBC director general Tony Hall vows to rein in excessive payouts. P17Bitcoin: the new gold standard. P30-31Rovio flying high after success of Angry Birds. P40 Wall Street Journal Europe SEC approves social media sites for broadcasting market-moving corporate news. P7Angry Birds maker Rovio at pivot point. P17,18 Daily Mail US journalists tell Cameron: your regulation of the press is anti-democracy. P6BBC comic accused of mocking justice system. P12Diary: John Humphrys interview with Tony Hall on Today. P1720 years on, Daily Mails Stephen Lawrence battle hailed as force for good. P20TVs historic blunders. P28Former BBC driver charged in Savile inquiry. P31Martha Lane-Fox - Baroness of Soho. P37 Daily Express TV review: Scott  Bailey returns to ITV. P39 The Sun Simon Cowell accused of dirty tricks scheduling war. P3BBC fat cats vow. P4Editorial: we will hold Tony Hall to his promise over pay. P8Rod Liddles advice to Tony Hall. P11 Daily Mirror Its The Voice v Britains Got Talent - round two. P3Savile cops charge former BBC chauffeur. P13 Daily Star BBC director general Tony Hall vows to rein in excessive payouts. P2BBC accuses ITV of dirty tricks as Britains Got Talent is scheduled against The Voice. P15 Media picks from around the web Jimmy Fallon inks new deal Small is beautiful: Futures rock magazine sell-off and the rise of the publishing startup Internet radio overhauling AM/FM radio for US 13- to 35-year-olds Dyson at Large: Newspaper offices and brand values Top-performing weekly battles elements to go to press  Go to MediaGuardian 
