Roe v Wade abortion decision at risk in 2016, Planned Parenthood head warns
https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2016/jan/21/roe-v-wade-abortion-laws-voters-2016-election-supreme-court
The future president of the United States will either defend a woman’s right to access safe and legal abortions – or destroy it, Planned Parenthood president Cecile Richards said on Thursday, exactly 43 years since Roe v Wade, the landmark supreme court decision that legalized abortion in the US. “There’s never been an election in which Roe was more clearly on the ballot,” Richards told reporters on a conference call. “I do think it’s going to be a defining issue for voters all across the country.” Indeed, the candidates have already faced questions about their views on abortion during the debates and on the campaign trail. The Republican candidates are fiercely pro-life, some even in cases where pregnancy is the result of rape or incest. The Democratic candidates defend women’s reproductive rights just as forcefully. “Young people in America cannot imagine, and are only now beginning to come to grips with the fact, that there are folks in this country who are either in elective office or are trying to get into elective office that would take away a right that has been the law of the land now for more than 40 years,” Richards said. “It’s been an enormous wake-up call.” At least one and as many as four supreme court appointments are likely to fall to the next president. A conservative majority could overturn the 1973 Roe v Wade decision.  Planned Parenthood Action Fund, the political arm of the women’s health organization, has endorsed Hillary Clinton for president, the organization’s first-ever primary endorsement in its century-long existence. Richards will campaign for Clinton in Iowa this weekend. Earlier this week, Clinton’s rival, Vermont senator Bernie Sanders, deemed the women’s health organization and the host of other liberal groups and labor unions backing Clinton, part of the “establishment”. Sanders said on MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow Show that his campaign is not only taking on Wall Street and the economic elite, but the “political establishment” as well. “I have friends and supporters in the Human Rights Fund and Planned Parenthood,” Sanders said, referring to two organizations that have endorsed Clinton. “But you know what? Hillary Clinton has been around there for a very, very long time. Some of these groups are, in fact, part of the establishment.” Planned Parenthood replied to Sanders’s comments by saying they were “disappointing”. “Disappointed to be called ‘establishment’ as we fight like hell to protect women’s health,” the organization wrote on Twitter. Emily’s List, a group dedicated to electing pro-choice candidates that has also backed Clinton, also jumped into the fight, accusing Sanders of treating women’s rights as “an afterthought at best”. “Senator Sanders’ attacks on Planned Parenthood are rooted in the same exact type of political calculation Republicans make when advancing their extreme agenda,” the group said in an email.  Clinton, who is locked into a tight race with Sanders in Iowa and New Hampshire, seized on the comment. “Really Senator Sanders? How can you say that groups like [Planned Parenthood] and [Human Rights Campaign] are part of the ‘establishment’ you’re taking on?” she wrote on Twitter.   The following day, Clinton defended the organization at a campaign event in Burlington, Iowa: “I wish it were [establishment]. If it were part of the establishment, we wouldn’t have to work so hard to protect it.”
