Dubliners 100: 15 New Stories Inspired by the Original – review
https://www.theguardian.com/books/2014/jun/12/dubliners-100-15-new-stories-inspired-by-original-review
Were it not for the pusillanimity of publishers and printers, we might have celebrated the centenary of the publication of James Joyces Dubliners in 2006 or 2009. But Joyces refusal to cut or edit the controversial elements of his book resulted in an eight-year ordeal that will give struggling short-story writers either succour or an ulcer, depending on their disposition. Even when Joyce secured a contract for the book, his publisher didnt hold out much hope for its commercial success, because it is about Ireland … and it is a collection of short stories.     Published by  Tramp Press    Long overshadowed by Ulysses, that high peak of modernism, and Finnegans Wake, which pushes the novel to extremes, Dubliners has gradually established a proximate if not equal standing. It has been described as an example of embryonic modernism, and among short story collections it occupies a justifiably vaunted position. Each of its 15 stories can stand alone, but together they cohere into what Joyce called a chapter of the moral history of my country. The stories, sharply ironic, beautiful, despairing and mysterious, work on different levels, and develop a rich interplay of hidden allusion and resonance. They are tied to a specific time and place, but, as with the famous snowfall at the close of the books final story, The Dead, which moves from one Dublin street to all of Ireland, and then the entire universe, Joyces specificity proves encompassing. For this reason, the emotional and intellectual truths of the book glint as brightly today as they did 100 years ago. In Dubliners 100, Thomas Morris, editor of Irish literary magazine Stinging Fly, has challenged 15 Irish writers to respond to Dubliners. In his introduction, Morris describes the process less as rewriting, more like covering a song. The description is a useful one, giving each writer the freedom to stay as close or wander as far from the language, atmosphere and incident of the original as they wish. The results are predictably mixed, but the successes are notable. Some stories meet the originals head-on. John Kellys A Little Cloud is like Sid Viciouss take on My Way: instantly recognisable as the same song, but louder and brasher. Mary Morrissys An Encounter is more oblique, knowingly playing on readers fears that the man who confronts two young girls in the woods will be the masturbating paedophile of Joyces original. Others venture further from the source. Belinda McKeon transforms the central character of Counterparts, the dipsomaniacal scrivener Farrington, into Elizabeth, an expat Dubliner working as an intern in New York. In both stories, an ill-considered remark has job‑threatening consequences, but whereas Farrington fails to complete his work owing to his need for alcohol, Elizabeths problem is her obsessive checking of Twitter, Gmail, Facebook and 17 open Safari tabs. Counterparts, of course, refers to a duplicate copy, but McKeons version mines the word by both copying and running counter to Joyces original. When she takes us into the fat blue stream of Elizabeths Twitter feed – Ger McKay is linking to something in the Guardian again. Cara Collins, plugging an article; Barry Shaughnessy, plugging a gig. Ian Geraghtys wife has given birth to a baby girl, 7lb 5 ounces, mother and nipper doing amazing. Nuala Byrnes cat is throwing a tantrum – McKeon contrasts the largely empty amplitude of social media with Joyces scrupulous meanness, his phrase conveying the way he strips narration to its bones. Thus her contribution works both as a story inspired by, and a commentary on, the original. Baileys winner Eimear McBride and Sam Coll deserve special mention as the writers here whose prose is most obviously Joycean, albeit not the Joyce of Dubliners. Their versions of Ivy Day in the Committee Room and Grace are fascinating examples of how those stories might have sounded had Joyce written them around the time of Ulysses. But if we were betting on the story Joyce would have liked most, my money would be on Evelyn Conlons version of Two Gallants. Responding to pressure from his publisher to cut it, Joyce said he thought it one of the most important stories in the book. I would rather sacrifice five of the other stories (which I could name) than this one. An account of swindlers cheating a maid out of her savings, it uses an actual theft as allegory for a political one: Irelands colonial servitude. Conlons version, about an academic stealing a colleagues revelation about the skivvy Joyce supposedly got his story from, is itself an act of theft: its premise is lifted from a 1986 William Trevor story, Two More Gallants, which is also a response to Joyce. Conlons version, therefore, enacts the theft it portrays, and nests one plagiarism inside another – a circular pattern that invites comparison with the circular movement through Dublins streets described by Lenehan and Corley in Joyces original (a circularity that in turn represents the inescapable cycle of Irish depredation). This series of echoes calls to mind the cyclical view of history Joyce encoded within the structure of Finnegans Wake, the final words of which run back into its opening line to create a never-ending loop. That design is there in Dubliners, too, albeit less explicitly: the first story begins with a boy looking up at a lighted window thinking of the dead man lying within, and the last story ends just a street away, with a man looking down from a window and thinking about a dead boy. A century on, the territory between these two points, heavily trodden as it is, can still provide new and fertile growth. • To order Dubliners 100 for €15 with free UK pp call Guardian book service on 0330 333 6846 or go to guardianbookshop.co.uk.
