New press regulator must have power to fine newspapers, says Hunt
https://www.theguardian.com/media/greenslade/2012/may/09/lord-hunt-pcc
A new press regulator should have the power to fine newspapers, says the head of the Press Complaints Commission, Lord Hunt. He will argue in a speech today that it is imperative to construct a new regulator with teeth. Hunt, who has disbanded the PCC* in advance of decisions by the Leveson inquiry about a revamped form of press regulation, does not spell out the structure of a new body. But he will lay down certain pointers when he addresses the Professional Publishers Association (PPA) annual conference at a London hotel at midday. He will say that the British people deserve a press which demonstrates it takes its responsibilities seriously and adheres to professional standards. Hunt acknowledges that the PCCs successor body will have to be both independent from the industry and have strong powers. He will tell the PPA, which represents magazine publishers and is part of the current self-regulatory system: If we get this right, the new regulator will be not only the scourge of bad, irresponsible journalism – but also the candid and supportive friend of good, robust, fearless journalism that characterises the trade at its best, and is genuinely in the public interest. I hope we can all agree that we all must strive to design a new system of self-regulation for newspapers and magazines in the UK that will be demonstrably independent, effective and robust. It is imperative to construct a new regulator with teeth, for example, the power to fine. He will also praise the way in which Lord Justice Leveson has conducted the inquiry. He deserves full credit... for revealing many unwelcome and sometimes unsavoury truths that had remained concealed for far too long. He believes Leveson has already changed the media landscape - incontrovertibly, I hope irreversibly and definitely for the better. But Hunt will restate his – and the industrys – opposition to statutory regulation. He will say that he regards it as inimical to freedom of expression. He will contend that existing laws on corruption, bribery, defamation, contempt of court and privacy are more than adequate, if enforced. *In spite of being stood down, the PCC continues to offer its mediation and conciliation services to the public, and will do so until a replacement body arrives. Source: PPA/Braben
