Pilots must warn the public about drone flights,  says ICO privacy advice
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/nov/13/pilots-privacy-drone-flights-ico-uav
Drone pilots must respect people’s privacy when flying, the Information Commissioner’s office (ICO) has said, issuing new guidance on the operation of the unmanned aerial vehicles. Pilots should let people know before they start to record them, should plan their flight in advance and not let their drone out of sight – both to ensure they don’t lose it, and to reassure members of the public that they are the one responsible for the vehicle. The new advice warns users of drones that, if their UAV has a camera, its use has the potential to be covered by the data protection act. Although “purely personal and recreational use” is unlikely to be covered, the ICO recommends that “all users of drones consider this guidance”. “If you are using a drone with a camera, there could be a privacy risk to other people,” the office says. “The likelihood of recording individuals inadvertently is high, because of the height they can operate at and the unique vantage point they afford. “Individuals may not always be directly identifiable from the footage captured by UAS [unmanned aerial systems, yet another name for drones], but can still be identified through the context they are captured in or by using the devices ability to zoom in on a specific person. As such, it is very important that you can provide a strong justification for their use.” The new advice is presented as part of the updated guidelines for operators of CCTV, of which UAVs are, in effect, a very specialised form. Personal use of drones is unlikely to pose data-protection issues, but for institutions using drones for a “more formal, professional purpose”, they should be aware of their obligations as a data controller. The new guidance also provides advice to users of technology which can automatically recognise elements of individuals, such as faces or eye movements, from video streams. Not only must any user provide “fair processing information to data subjects”, but companies which use automatic face recognition must ensure that they use high-definition cameras, which catch information at high enough quality to accurately identify individuals. “Any use of these automated technologies should involve some level of human interaction and should not be done on a purely automated basis,” the office adds.  UK privacy watchdog seeks ‘stronger powers’ and better funding 
