Politicians apply double standard in support of David Petraeus amid FBI leaks inquiry
https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2015/jan/12/petraeus-case-politicians-stand-by-general-despite-leaks-inquiry
Though under investigation by the FBI for unauthorized disclosure of classified information related to an affair with his biographer, David Petraeus counts among his defenders a host of prominent politicians who typically denounce security leaks. The former US army general and CIA director has deep ties to a bipartisan host of political heavyweights, from potential Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton to former Republican presidential nominee John McCain, and a well of media support stemming from his stewardship of the 2007-08 Iraq troop surge. Many have raced to support Petraeus in the days since word emerged that the most acclaimed military officer of his generation might face felony charges. Insiders began speculating about Petraeus’s return to the fore of national-security policymaking circles almost immediately after his November 2012 resignation following the revelation of an extramarital affair. But the persistence of the FBI probe – which has yet to produce an indictment – has delayed his reemergence. Even though leaks inquiries have ruined other careers and lives, Petraeus’s many high-profile political champions suggest an inevitability to his return, particularly in the event that Clinton receives the Democratic presidential nomination. Petraeus resigned the CIA directorship after an inquiry by the FBI, which determined that his biographer Paula Broadwell possessed classified information on her computer, raising suspicions that Petraeus provided it to her. He has denied the accusation. The FBI’s investigation into Petraeus has lasted about three years; according to statute, it can persist for 10 years without an indictment. According to the New York Times, federal prosecutors have now recommended that the Justice Department bring charges against him, prompting a chorus of outrage from Petraeus’s many Washington allies. Petraeus retains his security clearance, which permits him access to classified and sensitive information, though it is unclear if he currently uses it. Even as the FBI inquiry continues, Petraeus has continued to advise the Obama administration on Iraq, Bloomberg View has reported. Yet he has uncharacteristically avoided high-profile appearances and policy speeches. Outgoing Attorney General Eric Holder said on Sunday that the inquiry into his former colleague in administration cabinet meetings would proceed in a “fair” and “appropriate way”. The last several days have seen an outpouring of support for Petraeus from politicians who typically consider unauthorized disclosures to be serious offenses. Dianne Feinstein, the former chair of the Senate intelligence committee and a fervent critic of National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden, said on Sunday that Petraeus had “suffered enough” for his “mistake”. McCain and his ally on the Senate armed services committee, Republican Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, issued a joint statement over the weekend denouncing the official leakers who described federal prosecutors’ decision-making to the Times. “It is a shameful continuation of a pattern in which leaks by unnamed sources have marred this investigation in contravention to fundamental fairness,” said both Petraeus defenders. Few other accused leakers in the past have enjoyed such support. Former NSA whistleblower Thomas Drake lost his clearance following a years-long leak prosecution that ended with a misdemeanor guilty plea. McCain has denounced the perceived discrepancy in the past. In 2012, McCain contrasted the administration’s apparent nonchalance about leaks by senior aides with its vigorous prosecution of Wikileaks source Chelsea Manning. “The fact that this administration would aggressively pursue leaks perpetrated by a 22-year-old Army private in the WikiLeaks matter, former CIA employees in other leaks cases, but apparently sanction leaks made by senior administration officials for political purposes is simply unacceptable,” McCain said. The CIA declined to comment, citing its standard practice not to discuss personnel matters. Neither the Justice Department nor Petraeus returned a request for comment. Petraeus and Clinton developed a close working relationship while Clinton served as Obama’s secretary of state. When Petraeus helmed the CIA, the two agreed on an unadopted proposal to arm Syrian rebels against Bashar al-Assad that Obama ultimately endorsed last year to combat the Islamic State. Their closeness has continued outside government. Last year, a book about Clinton quoted Petraeus saying she would make “a tremendous president” and praising her performance during the 2012 Benghazi attack, which is likely to play a central role in criticisms of her presidential candidacy should she run. Classification revocations typically follow indictments. But broad leeway exists for agency chiefs to strip their employees of clearance. A Defense Department regulation permits suspension of access “when there exists information raising a serious question as to the individual’s ability or intent to protect classified information”. Such leeway has fueled criticism that a double standard exists that protects high-level leakers from the consequences faced by their low-level counterparts. “Denial or revocation of clearance is commonplace among otherwise honorable people who have debts, foreign relatives or have other difficulties or character flaws that are at best indirectly related to protecting classified information,” said Steven Aftergood of the Federation of American Scientists. “Basically, the clearance system is not always fair, consistent or even-handed.”
