Share price of digital sports rights company Perform Group halves
https://www.theguardian.com/media/2013/dec/12/sports-rights-perform-shares-fall
Digital sports rights company Perform Group saw its share price more than halve on Thursday – stripping more than £600m off its stock market value – after issuing a profits warning as trading deteriorated in the final three months of the year.  The company, which provides sports videos and data to consumers and betting companies such as Bet 365 and William Hill, downgraded its profit forecast this year after revealing a significant deterioration in advertising and sponsorship revenues in the fourth quarter. Investors took the news badly with the one-time stockmarket darling taking a 58% share price fall, down 247p to 180p. Perform Group, in which Warner Music-owner Len Blavatnik is the biggest shareholder, started Thursday valued at £1.2bn and by late afternoon had a market capitalisation of just under £500m. Jefferies analyst David Reynolds said the companys management, which in July paid £40m for sports data firm Opta, had dropped the operational ball. He said the company bit off more than it could chew in 2013 with a complex and massively time consuming series of contract re-negotiations with bookmakers for its Watch  Bet service, on top of acquisitions, fundraising and trying to prepare for the World Cup next year. In such a high growth model perhaps … the real mistake here is not being brutally prudent and conservative among a plethora of unknowns, said Reynolds. Jefferies has downgraded its full-year 2012 profit forecast by 27%, from £52m to £38m, and down 32% next year from £74m to £50m.  The company said that the fourth quarter is critical to its business, accounting for a third of annual revenues and 50% of profits, consequently the revenue shortfall will directly impact adjusted [profits]. Perform said its operations in the US and Germany were particularly badly hit. We are disappointed with the performance of the business in the fourth quarter against our expectations and as a consequence this has an impact on our outlook for 2014, said Oliver Slipper, joint chief executive of Perform. Whilst the issues we have experienced in the second half of 2013 are unsatisfactory, as a management team we are fully committed to continuing to grow Perform. • To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@theguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly for publication. • To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook.
