Supreme court missed chance to correct Citizens United 'mistake': White House
https://www.theguardian.com/law/2012/jun/25/obama-citizens-united-supreme-court-montana
The White House has criticised the supreme courts decision to strike down a Montana law limiting corporate campaign spending, a ruling which underlines its controversial decision two years ago allowing corporations to spend freely to influence elections. In a statement, the Obama administration said the court had missed an opportunity to correct the mistake of the historic Citizens United ruling in 2010, which they say paved the way for the rise of unregulated Super Pacs and a torrent of money into congressional and presidential contests. We are disappointed that the supreme court did not take the opportunity presented by the Montana case to revisit its decision in Citizens United, said the statement from White House spokesman Eric Schultz. In the aftermath of the Citizens United decision, we have seen unprecedented amounts of campaign spending, often by groups that wont disclose their donors. Citizens United was wrong when it was decided, and, as two supreme court justices have observed since, independent expenditures by corporations are threatening the health of our democracy. Citizens United mistakenly overruled longstanding cases that protected the fairness and integrity of elections. Unfortunately, the court today missed an opportunity to correct that mistake. The ruling, issued by the court on Monday morning, was a blow to critics hoping for a fresh examination of Citizens United. Aggressive spending by wealthy donors through Super Pacs has become a key issue ahead of the November 6 presidential election in light of the ruling. In a 5-4 vote, split along the same conservative-liberal lines as the original Citizens United case, the courts conservative justices reversed a decision by the Montana supreme court that refused to follow the 2010 case. The January 2010 decision ruled that corporate money is speech and so corporations can spend unlimited money to support or oppose political candidates in federal elections, as long as the finance is independent of the campaigns it is intended to help. Justice Anthony Kennedy declared in his Citizens United opinion that independent expenditures by corporations do not give rise to corruption or the appearance of corruption. The state of Montana, which has suffered historic election interference by the mining industrys copper barons, believed differently and brought the case seeking to defend its centuries old law limiting corporate spending. Backed by 22 states, the District of Columbia, Senator John McCain and other congressional champions of stricter regulations on campaign money, Montana argued that its 1912 law limiting corporate influence on elections needed to remain in place. They had also hoped for a debate on the Citizens United decision which could have led to its reconsideration. But the supreme court decided against re-examining its Citizens United ruling and said that it also applied to state and local elections. Critics of the decision said the court was blind to the enormous damage the decision had done to democracy. House minority leader Nancy Pelosi said: Today, the supreme court kept open the floodgates to uninhibited special interest spending in our campaigns and in our politics. Their disappointing decision to uphold Citizens United deals yet another blow to a fundamental American value: that the voices of the people determine the outcome of our elections, not the checkbooks of the few. Bernie Sanders, the US senator for Vermont, said: In his famous speech at Gettysburg during the civil war, Abraham Lincoln talked about America as a country of the people, by the people and for the people. Today, as a result of the supreme courts refusal to reconsider its decision in Citizens United, we are rapidly moving toward a nation of the super-rich, by the super-rich and for the super-rich. Fred Wertheimer of Democracy 21, said: The decision just continues the enormous damage that the supreme court has done to our political decision making and democracy. It was not an unexpected decision but if shows that the five justices are blind to the enormous damage they have done and the opportunities they have created for corruption of our government decisions and our office holders. Wertheimer predicted a huge backlash after the election campaign with a national campaign finance reform movement beginning in 2013. Two of the liberal justices wanted a full hearing on the case. Justices Ruth Bader Ginsberg and Stephen Breyer argued that the Citizens United case should come under fresh scrutiny because of concern over its effect on campaign finance. Montanas experience, like considerable experience elsewhere since the Courts decision in Citizens United, casts grave doubt on the Courts supposition that independent expenditures do not corrupt or appear to do so, Breyer wrote in the decision. Ginsberg said the case will give the court an opportunity to consider whether, in light of the huge sums currently deployed to buy candidates allegiance, Citizens United should continue to hold sway.  One estimate found that Republican super PACs and outside groups could spend more than $1bn to influence the 2012 election. The supreme court ruled for three corporations – a political advocacy group called American Tradition Partnership Inc, a nonprofit group that promotes shooting sports and a small family-owned painting business - that challenged the Montana law for violating their free-speech rights. James Bopp, lead attorney for the Montana corporations, said when he filed the appeal: If Montana can ban core political speech because of Montanas unique characteristics, free speech will be seriously harmed. Speakers will be silenced because of corruption by others over a century ago.
