The House of St Barnabas: ‘To be invited in is empowering’
https://www.theguardian.com/theobserver/2016/jul/10/house-of-st-barnabas-new-radicals-homeless-unemployed
The first thing you see as you approach the House of St Barnabas in London’s Soho are the words “House of Charity” in faded art nouveau letters – missionary zeal in bricks and mortar. The building, as director of culture Nadra Shah explains, has had a diverse philanthropic history – it has, since 1846, been a charity for the homeless, a second world war shelter and a women’s hostel. But its newest lease of life is its most extraordinary. In October 2013, the house was relaunched as a not-for-profit private members’ club to fund courses for the homeless and long-term unemployed. Anyone who eats there will be wowed by its rococo mouldings, chic menu and wacky art – a million miles away, you would think, from the plight of the homeless. “I love the way the house upsets the status quo, blurs poverty and luxury,” says Shah. “This is part of the magic of why it works. To be invited in is empowering.’ Employment courses – with 25 participants – last 12 weeks. Most participants are referred here by social security services; a few pluck up the courage to knock on the door. All applicants must have the desire to work and be substance-free. They will learn business admin, hospitality, personal and financial skills. After two weeks, everyone works (and is mentored) here. I watch Rory as his picture is taken – smilingly patient, though his wrist must be starting to ache holding his tray. He has been a waiter here for two years. “It’s life-changing. I was raised in the US, spent over four years in prison. When you’re ready to change, change will happen.” The house has made him feel supported, optimistic. He says being open about a difficult past matters. “People can be very judgmental, which makes you shut down. But you need to get past what others think.” It is important to be willing to make mistakes. His advice: “Do not be afraid to fail.” He admits that when he first started, “a few drinks slipped… whoops!”  Andre, long-term unemployed and from the Philippines, has worked for nine months as a breakfast chef and done more than admire the house’s art. He has contributed his own meticulous picture of its Georgian facade (hanging upstairs). Nurten, from Turkey and working in event management, has seen off her depression: “I feel this is family.” Everyone talks about the confidence the place instils. And Nurten emphasises the rapport with club members: “I used to help people, now they help me. They’re strangers but I feel close to them. I smile and they smile back.” 
