Thursday’s best TV: Who Do You Think You Are?, Cradle to Grave, Charlie Hebdo: Three Days That Shook Paris
https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2015/sep/24/who-do-you-think-you-are-cradle-to-grave
Who Do You Think You Are?9pm, BBC1 “This story has taken a really dark turn and I’m not happy about it at all.” So says the BBC’s security correspondent Frank Gardner, whose own life once turned pretty dark after he was shot and left for dead in Riyadh in 2004. In this instance, he is referring to his 10-times great-grandfather, a Tudor knight who was sentenced to death in the Tower of London, wrongly accused of treason. (“An absolute travesty!”) Elsewhere, he discovers more rakish relatives – and personal letters from Charles Darwin. Ali Catterall Cradle to Grave9pm, BBC2 Danny Baker’s autobiographical 1970s sitcom continues, and things are looking up: he’s captain of the school football team during a cup run and Miss Blondel, the alluring French teacher who runs the photography club, seems to be receptive to his clumsy advances. But when forced to choose between his sporting and romantic ambitions, Danny’s decision doesn’t go down well with PE teacher Mr Glover (guest star John Henshaw). Elsewhere, dad Spud struggles to raise the tin required for Sharon’s wedding. Graeme Virtue Celebrity Big Brother: Live Final9pm, Channel 5 Another bonkers series of Celebrity Big Brother draws to a close after four weeks of meltdowns, fake evictions and screeching. There’s been no shortage of drama, with one of the highlights being Bobby Davro taking down Teen Mom venom-pot Farrah Abraham. Emma Willis will be bounding around for the Live Final, picking off the last ones standing like leeches on the muddy leg of the celebrity world. Get ’em out! Hannah Verdier The Secret Rules of Modern Living: Algorithms9pm, BBC4 Oxford professor Marcus du Sautoy puts his reassuring bedside presentational manner to good use as he seeks to demystify the world of algorithms, those sinister numerical forces that, we are told, are now running the world. He explains how algorithms actually date back to the era of ancient Greek mathematics, how Google’s shrewd use of them means that no one talks about AltaVista any more, and how they affect every aspect of our lives, from credit card security to online dating. David Stubbs First Dates10pm, Channel 4 Third in the glorious eavesdropping series where willing singles come for dinner with a stranger in a camera-rigged restaurant, as the alcohol flows and the waiting staff hover discreetly, egging the action along where necessary. Tonight, Paul meets Samantha and the two slip straight into the kind of comic banter that suggests an instant connection. They are unable to stop jousting, even for a moment. Annoying that this is a finite series. Surely they could just run the restaurant as a going concern and keep the cameras rolling? Julia Raeside Charlie Hebdo: Three Days That Shook Paris10pm, More4 Documentary recalling January’s attacks by Islamist terrorists on Paris gendarmes, a Jewish supermarket in the same city and the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. A total of 17 people were murdered; three perpetrators were later killed by police. This film hears from survivors of the attacks and those bereaved by them. The fact that people still insist on equivocating about the machine-gunning of cartoonists for doing drawings makes retellings such as this all the more important. Andrew Mueller Wicked Tuna: North v South9pm, National Geographic More competitive bluefin fishing, and there’s an exciting start to this second round. To reach a nearby tuna school, a couple of the crews have to navigate the narrow gap between two bridge supports, in swirling water that could capsize their boat. They might easily drown, they tell us in interviews recorded afterwards. Once that excitement’s ebbed, we settle into a rhythm of rods bending, fish struggling and people in waterproofs whooping. Then it’s back ashore, where the heaviest, fattiest fish earn the big bucks. Jack Seale Film choice Dreamgirls (Bill Condon, 2007) 9pm, 5* Adapted from a 70s Broadway show, Condon’s dynamic musical follows a Motown group through the heyday of soul and disco. The energised cast includes Beyoncé Knowles as a Diana Ross-type diva, the Oscar-winning Jennifer Hudson, vying to be leader of their gang, Jamie Foxx a motor-mouthed (well, it is Detroit) manager and, best of all, Eddie Murphy as raunchy soul man James “Thunder” Early. Paul Howlett Today’s best live sport Golf: The European Open Coverage of the opening day from Golf Resort Bad Griesbach in Germany. 10am, Sky Sports 4 Rugby World Cup: New Zealand v Namibia All the action from the Pool C encounter at the Olympic Stadium in London, where Namibia are the final team of the 20 involved to play a game in this year’s tournament. 7.30pm, ITV American Football: New York Giants v Washington Redskins NFL action from the MetLife Stadium. 1am, Sky Sports 1
