UK supreme court's jurisdiction in Scotland upheld by review panel
https://www.theguardian.com/law/2011/sep/14/supreme-court-scotland-jurisdiction-upheld
An expert panel has upheld the right of the UK supreme court to overrule Scottish judges despite heated and vigorous attacks on its powers by Alex Salmond and his justice minister Kenny MacAskill. The panel of Scottish judges set up by Salmond to review the supreme courts powers has defended the courts jurisdiction in Scotland, defying the Scottish governments attempts to significantly limit or even block it from adjudicating on criminal appeals. The panel headed by Lord McCluskey, a retired judge and former solicitor general, was appointed earlier this year after the supreme court over-turned the conviction of Nat Fraser for murdering his wife, on the grounds that significant evidence was withheld. Fraser now faces a retrial. That led to bitter attacks on its authority by the first minister and his justice secretary. They accused the supreme court of intervening aggressively in Scottish cases, of opening cell doors and of being ignorant about the law. MacAskill also threatened to cut funding to the supreme court. Many senior lawyers and judges were stunned when they appeared to attack the professionalism and conduct of Scotlands two supreme court judges, Lord Hope and Lord Rodger. They were professionally barred from retaliating. Lord Rodger was also dying of cancer at the time; he died in late June. Many suspected that Salmond wanted to undermine the supreme courts reputation before future hearings on the legality of his referendum on independence and other potentially expensive human rights cases. Others believed it was partly inspired by professional jealously amongst other Scottish judges. McCluskeys proposals gave both the Scottish government and the UK government an opportunity to claim success. But on the key point, his panel supported the supreme courts role in adjudicating on European human rights convention breaches in criminal trials. It also suggested extending those rights, to cover all public bodies. MacAskill welcomed the panels recommendation that defence lawyers would need a certificate from the high court before it could apply to the supreme court: this is not currently required for Scottish cases, but it is in England and Wales. The justice secretary also claimed that the McCluskey committee had severely criticised the UK governments plans in the new Scotland bill; the panel said it should be made even clearer that Scotlands appeal court was the apex of the Scottish criminal courts system, not the supreme court. Some of the finest legal and constitutional minds in the country have recognised that the UK supreme court plays a much more significant – and inappropriate - role in Scottish criminal law than had been envisaged when the Scotland Act was passed, and that it is more intrusive within Scots law than is the case for the other jurisdictions within the UK, MacAskill said. If this situation continues, this has serious implications for the independence of our historical legal system. MacAskill then said these problems would not exist if Scotland were independent, but then backtracked on his earlier attacks by acknowledging the supreme court would continue to play a role in Scottish legal appeals. Clearly in an independent Scotland the solutions would be simpler with cases referred from the Scottish courts direct to the European Court of Human Rights. But we must deal with the existing, albeit unsatisfactory, constitutional position and act to restore and protect the traditional role of our high court and put it on an equal footing with higher courts in the rest of the UK. Lord Wallace, the advocate general and the UK governments Scottish legal adviser, said McCluskeys over-all defence of the supreme court vindicated the UK governments stance. Such agreement with my own expert group and many others in the Scottish legal community on this key point makes one wonder why passions bubbled over in certain quarters a few short months ago, he said. Wallace, the former Liberal Democrat deputy first minister of Scotland, added: I cant ignore the claim today from Mr MacAskill that things would be simpler in a separate Scotland when cases could be referred straight to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. It is a curious definition of simpler to have a case sent to a court twice as far away, in France, where there is a backlog of 150,000 cases. He said others disagreed with McCluskeys call for high court to give advance permission for supreme court referrals. He needed to consider that and other recommendations carefully, but said they would be given a full and proper airing when the Scotland bill is debated in the Lords. Willie Rennie, the Scottish Liberal Democrat leader, said McCluskeys findings discredited the Scottish governments attacks. McCluskey had decided that all UK citizens deserved the same rights to take human rights cases to the supreme court, not less. The SNP have been found guilty of tawdry language and barely disguised malevolence that has not served Scottish justice well and ill fits those in their high offices, Rennie said.
