Angling for More of the Post-9/11 Pie - NYTimes.com
campaign: nyt2016_bar1_digihd_BAU_mtr_msg_64RWJ -- 283467, creative: bar1_digihd_BAU_mtr_64RWJ_64RWL_64RXF_64RXJ -- 413062, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1
Want both newspaper deliveryand free, unlimited digital access?50% OFF FOR 12 WEEKS
Want unlimited access to NYTimes.com and our apps?99 FOR 4 WEEKSSee All SubscriptionsSubscribe
EVER since September 2001, when terrorists flew a fully fueled jet right by Indian Point nuclear power plant and past county reservoirs that provide drinking water for 10 million people -- past gas and electric transmission lines and Fortune 500 companies -- Westchester has scrambled to improve security.
Yet nationwide, some thinly populated rural localities have garnered large sums in federal domestic security financing, while Westchester, which the F.B.I. recognizes as a ''target-rich community,'' has received little by comparison, county officials say.
Communities in wide-open Alaska, for example, have received an estimated $58 per resident in Homeland security funds, according to figures compiled by Mayor Michael Bloomberg's office, while Westchester has received $6 per resident. Alaska recently considered buying a jet with a portion of its ample security money; Westchester, meanwhile, patrols county skies with a 1967 Hughes helicopter twice shot down over Vietnam almost 40 years ago.
In his role as president of the County Executives of America, a national lobbying group, Andrew J. Spano has recently devised a tactic to try wrestling more cash from the federal government. On Friday, with his board of directors' endorsement, Mr. Spano and nearly 20 other county executives petitioned Tom Ridge, the homeland security secretary, to set aside security funds for high-risk suburban counties.
The program would be modeled after the Urban Area Security Initiative, a federal project created since the terror attacks to direct security financing to cities considered at high risk. Only a small portion of the financing has gone to nearby areas. For instance New York City, the target of two terrorist attacks, has received more than $260 million in security funds during the past three years, according to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's office. Westchester, its immediate neighbor, has received $5.6 million.
But as Mr. Spano points out, ''Whatever impacts New York City impacts us.'' Hundreds of police officers, firefighters and ambulances were deployed from the suburbs to the city after the terrorist attack. One hundred and nine Westchester residents died in the World Trade Center disaster, according to Mr. Spano.
''As New York City strengthens itself,'' he added in a recent interview, ''we don't want terrorists coming here to make a big splash. It's like having an alarm on your house. Criminals will go to the next house because it's easier. There are plenty of places here where terrorists could make a statement.''
Local enterprises have taken what steps they can in response to this warning. ''We're not asleep at the switch,'' said Richard G. Wishnie, a Democratic legislator based in Briarcliff. ''But we're trying to do so much with so little.''
Since the Sept. 11 attacks, for instance, the New York City Department of Environmental Conservation has added 166 people to the 45 already patrolling Westchester reservoirs, said Edward Welch, the department's police chief. Officials of the Metropolitan Transit Authority say they have increased the number of transit police officers at Grand Central Terminal and plan to increase patrols in Westchester. As budgets have allowed, police and fire departments, along with ambulance corps, have hired staff and upgraded equipment.
According to Mr. Spano, the county has spent another $20 million from its own coffers to shore up security. A full-time intelligence and counterterrorism expert was hired. At the county airport, extra guards have been added and lighting and monitoring equipment has been improved, he said. Full-face respirators and personal-protective suits have been distributed to first responders -- firefighters, police officers and emergency medical service staff.
The county bought 11 decontamination and medical trailers for deployment to countywide emergencies. He also said it was in the process of hooking up hospitals to computerized early-warning systems that can detect epidemics or biological attacks.
Earlier this month, Mr. Spano said, the county board of legislators authorized spending an additional $7 million to upgrade communication software allowing fire departments, police, ambulances, hospitals and schools to speak with one another when phone lines are down. The improvements could begin as soon as next year.
But that is where the money runs out, officials say. The 11 decontamination trailers cannot be deployed because the county does not own trucks to pull them. Hospitals need to retrofit emergency rooms to isolate patients infected by biological weapons. First responders need more self-contained suits providing pure air and protection in case of a biological attack.
According to Jennifer Hanley, press secretary for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, security funds have until now been doled out to states using to a three-pronged formula. The first part stipulates that all states receive a certain quantity regardless of their population or risk status. The second allows dispersal of additional money according to state population. The third allots money specifically for high-risk urban areas.
But things should start to change now that President Bush has signed the Homeland Security Appropriations Act, which he did earlier this month. Under the act, states will have access to new money based on their populations. States with high-risk urban areas will continue receiving extra money.
And for the future, Congress is working on an intelligence bill that would use threat rather than population to calculate how the majority of security funds are distributed. If a measure emerged from the legislative process and was passed, cities and suburbs considered at high risk of attack, like New York City and Westchester, would most likely get more support.
''Just because you're a city doesn't make you vulnerable,'' Mr. Spano said. ''It's your targets that make you vulnerable.''
Speaking of the federal government, he added, ''This game that they play, that everyone gets a little piece of pie, crosses the line when it involves protecting people.''
Photo: The 1967 Hughes helicopter that the county uses to patrol its skies was shot down twice during the Vietnam War. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Inv1
