How Long Should a Man Go Between Haircuts? - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Mens Style|How Long Should a Man Go Between Haircuts?
Garrett Pike cuts the hair of Nicholas Rozza at the Persons of Interest barbershop in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
A good haircut lasts long after you leave the barbershop.But how long, exactly?To a large degree, the life span of a cut depends on the style, and the prevailing Brooklyn do  tight on the sides, with some length on top  puts guys, on average, in the chair once every three to six weeks.When I give a haircut, of course its going to look good  you just got it cut, said Garrett Pike, a head barber at the Brooklyn-based chain Persons of Interest. But I try to get the most out of every cut.The dialogue with your barber at the start of your session (how long since your last cut, how do you like to wear it, the continuing horror of the New York Knicks) isnt just small talk; its vital information that will lead to a cut that will still look good once you have run it through a shower and may even improve as it grows out.The more you can tell your stylist, the better. Youve been dealing with your hair your whole life, Mr. Pike said. You know all the kooky things that can happen.Mike Sposito, who cuts hair at the Fellow Barber location in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, said, It all depends on how crispy youre trying to look. Crispy, in this case, is slang for how done you would like your hair to look. Its, like, fresh, Mr. Sposito said. The edges are well defined.
Mr. Spositos core clientele adheres to the three-to-six-week time frame, but a few visit as often as once a week, hoping to constantly maintain what he calls the brand-new-sneaker look.There is such a thing as overdoing it. If you come too much, Mr. Pike said, and you keep asking for the same thing, its just going to keep getting shorter and shorter, and you cant keep hitting the same marks.
The street-style favorite Nick Wooster, who gets his hair cut every two weeks.
Nick Wooster, the fashion consultant who is a favorite of the street-style photographers who stand outside runway shows, likes a frequent check-in at Genos Barberia in the West Village.I go every two weeks, he said. It makes me crazy if I go even one day over. I may even go every 10 days. For Mr. Wooster, it is not only about achieving a specific look. Its one of those nice things you can do for yourself, he said.Barbers said that longer, shaggier cuts are coming back. But those, too, require forethought. Ive always said: You need to keep coming in. Youre not 14, you cant just throw a beanie on it, Mr. Sposito said. In the growing-out process, he added, you will likely cycle through three or four distinct hairstyles.And when it comes to big events  a wedding, a nieces bat mitzvah, a job interview over Skype  most barbers recommend a buffer of one or two days, to allow the cut to settle. Mr. Wooster, who prefers a day-of cut when he is being photographed, said, Some barbers say the only difference between a good haircut and a bad haircut is three days.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page D13 of the New York edition with the headline: Haircut Strategies.
These Two Guys Are Changing How We Think About Fashion
For Staff on Naked and Afraid, Work Is Just a Blur
Merle Haggard and Okie From Muskogee, the Hit That Helped and Hurt Him
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
