No patient privacy: Texas health workers turn in undocumented woman during gynecology appointment
Twitter erupts after ESPN host wears Caucasians shirt to call out Cleveland Indians logoLIVE COVERAGE: Two killed in apparent murder-suicide at Lackland Air Force Base in TexasBystanders beat the crap out of youth pastor they caught molesting a 6-year-old boyHeres why so few Americans appear in the Panama PapersIndiana trooper fired for preaching at traffic stop: Oh well  Im just following what the Lord told me to doHow a 12th century murder became an international Jewish conspiracyWHOA: Christian cake baker rips Miss. lawmakers over mind-boggling stupidity of anti-gay lawColbert mocks GOP support for Cruz: Endorsement means throwing up in your mouth a little bitLotto security director hacked random-number generator to rig several lotteries: investigatorsSuperman should be black  according to scienceU.S. NewsNo patient privacy: Texas health workers turn in undocumented woman during gynecology appointment Tom Boggioni13 Sep 2015 at 17:39 ET
A mother who showed up at a Texas healthcare clinic for her annual gynecological exam is facing deportation after clinic staffers called authorities and stalled her for them until they arrived.
The Houston Press is reporting that Blanca Borrego and her two daughters were delayed at the Northeast Womens Healthcare clinic in Atascocita for several hours, before healthcare workers showed the woman to an examination room where authorities entered minutes later and arrested her.
According to Borregos oldest daughter, she watched Harris County Sheriffs deputies march her mother out of the clinic in handcuffs.
Were going to take her downtown, she presented a form of false identification, she recalled the deputy saying, before adding, Shes going to get deported.
According to Borregos attorney, Clarissa Guajardo, Borrego was a first-time visitor to the clinic to see her doctor with whom she had a previous relationship. After giving clinic workers a fake drivers license she was told to wait as, unbeknownst to her, authorities were called.
Guajardos attorney believes that clinic workers may have violated medical privacy laws.
They took her into that examination room solely for the purpose of being arrested, Guajardo said in an interview. I just have a very hard time with that. I think its a violation of HIPAA laws.
While exemptions to HIPAA laws exist they are generally used when a patient threatens to physical harm to himself or others.
According to her family, Borrego is being held in Harris County jail on a $35,000 bond and they are worried that she may be deported if convicted on felony charges of tampering with a government record because she also had a fake Social Security card in her purse.
When pressed by the Houston Press if it is the clinics policy to contact authorities if staffers suspect patients of being undocumented immigrants, Memorial Hermann  the parent company of Northwest Womens Healthcare  spokeswoman Alex Loessin answered, As you know, because of patient privacy, I am unable to provide comment.
Report typos and corrections to corrections@rawstory.com
About the AuthorTom Boggioni is based in the quaint seaside community of Pacific Beach in less quaint San Diego. He writes about politics, media, culture, and other annoyances. Mostly he spends his days at the beach gazing at the horizon waiting for the end of the world, or the sun to go down. Whichever comes first.
Next on Raw Story >Superman should be black  according to science
By commenting, you agree to our terms of service and to abide by our commenting policy.Read Comments - Join the Discussion
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTERGet the best of Raw Story, delivered daily
Trump adviser insists Republicans wont have a contested convention
Colbert mocks GOP support for Cruz: Endorsement means throwing up in your mouth a little bit
What is a contested convention  and what would one mean for the GOP?
Bernie Sanders tells Seth Meyers: I want to focus on issues  but Clinton is trying to distract me
LIVE COVERAGE: Two killed in apparent murder-suicide at Lackland Air Force Base in Texas
Drug to treat nicotine addiction can be used to treat sugar cravings, new study shows
Trump adviser insists Republicans wont have a contested convention
Beauty business goes Big Brother: CIA funding skin cream that can harvest your DNA
Die, motherf*cker: White Catholic school students investigated for noose video sent to black classmate
Indiana trooper fired for preaching at traffic stop: Oh well  Im just following what the Lord told me to do
How a 12th century murder became an international Jewish conspiracy
Lotto security director hacked random-number generator to rig several lotteries: investigators
Colbert mocks GOP support for Cruz: Endorsement means throwing up in your mouth a little bit
LIVE COVERAGE: Two killed in apparent murder-suicide at Lackland Air Force Base in Texas
Die, motherf*cker: White Catholic school students investigated for noose video sent to black classmate
Indiana trooper fired for preaching at traffic stop: Oh well  Im just following what the Lord told me to do
Colbert mocks GOP support for Cruz: Endorsement means throwing up in your mouth a little bit
Bernie Sanders tells Seth Meyers: I want to focus on issues  but Clinton is trying to distract me
American Idol  the most American pop culture phenomenon of them all
Cenk Uygur mocks anti-abortion activist Daleiden after raid: Youre no Edward Snowden
Bill Clinton accuses #BlackLivesMatter rally protesters of defending gang leaders
Black Arkansas lawmaker schools GOP colleague for comparing Medicaid expansion to slavery
New York GOP congressman: If Ted Cruz is the nominee, Ill get some cyanide
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTERGet the best of Raw Story, delivered daily
