What an Overpass Collapse Reveals - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
The Opinion Pages|What an Overpass Collapse Reveals
Witnesses said it sounded like a bomb going off. On March 31, a 300-foot section of a vehicle overpass in Kolkata, India, crashed down in a crowded neighborhood, killing 27 people and injuring at least 85 others.K. Panduranga Rao, an official with IVRCL, the company building the overpass, called the collapse nothing but a Gods act. But there are deep suspicions that, as is so often the case in India, politics and greed were involved.For starters, several Indian states had blacklisted IVRCL for poor performance, and the company was in financial trouble. There was also pressure to complete the overpass in Kolkata, the capital of the state of West Bengal, ahead of state legislative elections in which voting began on Monday and will continue through May 5. Workers who laid the concrete on the fallen section of the overpass worked for Rajat Bakshi, a man with no apparent qualifications in the construction business other than that he is the cousin of a former state legislator, Sanjay Bakshi, who is close to the states chief minister, Mamata Banerjee.The construction business in India is a major source of campaign funds. Infrastructure and urban development depend on government contracts and land clearances, and, as a recent World Economic Forum report on India put it, are more affected by corruption than other industries.Several officers of IVRCL, including site engineers working on the overpass, have been arrested. Ms. Banerjee has promised to take strong action against those responsible. To that end, she must make sure that nothing impedes a thorough investigation into ties between IVRCL and local politicians.
The collapse comes as Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeks billions of dollars in foreign direct investment in new infrastructure projects to reboot Indias overburdened urban landscape. Mr. Modi pledged during his 2014 election campaign to root out corruption, and, to his credit, has begun to go after money launderers in the construction business and the corrupt politicians who profit from them.The overpass collapse provides fresh incentive to pursue these efforts. Mr. Modi should also push for legislation giving Indias Electoral Commission the authority to enforce transparency in political contributions and to sanction violators. The issue is a critical one for Indias development and for its democracy. Continue reading the main story
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
