Porous Borders and Calcified Security Aid Islamic State in Europe - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Politics|Porous Borders and Calcified Security Aid Islamic State in Europe
Porous Borders and Calcified Security Aid Islamic State in Europe
A private security guard helped a wounded woman outside the Maelbeek metro station in Brussels on Tuesday.
The United States and its allies have spent nearly 20 months bombing the Islamic State in classic military style  barraging Syria and Iraq in an effort to dislodge the group from its seat of power.The campaign has produced a drumbeat of Pentagon news releases about how much territory that the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, has lost and how many of its fighters have been killed. White House officials have made optimistic projections that its most important strongholds could fall by the end of the year.But Tuesdays grisly attacks in Brussels pointed out a daunting reality: As the United States is consumed with the war in Iraq and Syria, the Islamic State has chosen the capitals of Western Europe to score military victories of its own, and has been aided by a combination of porous borders and a calcified security apparatus in Europe that many say is ill equipped to stop sophisticated attacks.Western intelligence officials once debated whether the Islamic State might adopt the tactics of earlier generations of terrorist networks  Al Qaeda, in particular  or whether the group might eschew attacks on the West in favor of building its caliphate in Iraq and Syria. The carnage in Paris in November and now in Brussels has put those debates to rest, and those who have studied the group say much of its danger lies in how little it seems to care about whom it kills, or where.Its brand is brutality, said William McCants of the Brookings Institution, the author of The ISIS Apocalypse. If thats your brand, you dont have to exert a lot of control over your operatives, and you can send them off to kill wherever they find the opportunity.
The Islamic States infrastructure is part of the reason it has been able to attack inside Europe with deadly effect. French investigators who spent months studying the Paris attacks discovered an extensive machinery the group had built to launch a sustained campaign across the Continent. Last week, President Franois Hollande of France acknowledged that the network of operatives in multiple countries who supported the assailants in the weeks before the November attacks had surprised the French authorities.The Paris attackers used Belgium as a back door for logistics and planning  and as a getaway. In the months since the attacks, current and former American officials have said the country remains vulnerable.
What Happened at Each Location in the Brussels Attacks
Maps and diagrams show the extent of the damage at the airport and subway station.
Some of the small countries in the European Union have a sense that larger security issues are taken care of by the larger countries, and Belgium is certainly in that category, said Daniel Benjamin, a former State Department terrorism coordinator and now a scholar at Dartmouth College.More broadly, Mr. Benjamin and others said, European nations still refuse to share even basic intelligence  sometimes sharing it with the United States before giving it to one another  leading to blind spots across the Continent that make it easier for terrorist groups to strike.In many ways, Europe as a unit is where we were on Sept. 10, 2001, said Senator Angus King, the Maine independent who is a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, on Tuesday.Mr. King, who is traveling in Europe as part of a congressional delegation, said he had been struck by how intelligence cooperation in Europe is hampered by historic rivalries  not only between nations, but also within them.The security services inside some countries refuse to share terrorism information with one another, he said, likening the situation to the breakdown in communication between the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. in the months before the Sept. 11 attacks. He declined to specify which European nations had the biggest problems, although many analysts in Europe have criticized French security services for not sharing information with one another.Belgiums dysfunctional government and fractured security services have compounded a problem in Western Europe, a region where terrorist operatives can cross borders with ease.
The feeling is that the Belgians just do not have the capacity to handle a terror threat like this, Mr. McCants said.All of these factors, taken together, emphasize the magnitude of the challenge facing European authorities as they have tried to prevent another attack in the months since Paris.
Brussels Is Latest Target in Islamic States Assault on West
More than 650 Westerners have been killed in attacks carried out or inspired by the Islamic State.
A lot of our partners right now in Europe are facing a lot of challenges in terms of the number of individuals who have traveled to Syria and Iraq and back again, and so their ability to monitor and surveil these individuals is under strain, John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director, said shortly after the Paris attacks.Terrorism analysts support claims by the Obama administration that the military campaign against the Islamic State has succeeded in wresting territory from the group, estimating that it now controls 25 percent to 40 percent less ground in Iraq and Syria than it did when the American-led coalition began bombing in August 2014.But the Islamic State is still holding on to its most important cities, including Mosul in Iraq and Raqqa in Syria, the latter considered to be groups primary base of operations. White House officials have privately said they hope that both places can be retaken before President Obama leaves office, although the Pentagon has not given specifics about how that might happen.But even as the Islamic State has suffered reverses in Iraq and Syria, the consistent message of its leaders  that their followers should strike whenever and wherever they can  has allowed the group to portray strength.The strategy is a departure from the one used for years by senior Qaeda operatives, particularly Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahri, who often scuttled the plans for attacks before they were executed because they did not consider the targets significant enough.In September 2014, one month after the coalition bombing campaign began, a spokesman for the Islamic State, Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, said in an audio address that the groups followers in the West and Australia should strike in any way they could in their own countries, not waiting for instructions from leaders.
He urged attacks on both military and civilian targets, declaring that both of them are disbelievers. His call for do-it-yourself attacks has been widely repeated on the Internet and social media.If you can kill a disbelieving American or European  especially the spiteful and filthy French  or an Australian, or a Canadian, or any other disbeliever, he said, kill him in any manner or way however it may be.
Eric Schmitt and Scott Shane contributed reporting.
A version of this article appears in print on March 23, 2016, on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Porous Borders and Calcified Security Aid Islamic State in Europe.
A Brussels Mentor Who Taught Gangster Islam to the Young and Angry
Revelation on Brussels Attackers Fuels Fears of New Assaults
Johan Van Steen, Legal Expert and Photographer, Dies in Brussels Attacks
More Suspects in Brussels Attacks Arrested in Belgium
Radicalization of a Promising Student Turned Bomb Maker in Brussels
Brussels Attacks Fuel Debate Over Migrants in a Fractured Europe
Brussels Attacks Underscore Vulnerability of an Open European Society
Brussels Attacks Fuel Debate Over Migrants in a Fractured Europe
Brussels Attacks Underscore Vulnerability of an Open European Society
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
