Civil liberties gurus happy to invade the privacy of others | Catherine Bennett | Opinion | The Guardian
Civil liberties gurus happy to invade the privacy of others
WikiLeaks argues releasing Sony emails is in the public interest. Nonsense, when some violations are horrific
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. Photograph: John Stillwell/PA
The collaboration has been a long time in coming, but so close is the current working relationship between WikiLeaks and the Daily Mail that it is becoming difficult to believe that the two organisations were ever at odds.
Hardly any time has passed since the paper was happy to style Assange a traitor, aka the slimy WikiLeaks founder; his most notable achievement, in that newspapers estimation, to have cost Britain around 9m  to date  for policing the Ecuadorian embassy. All the WikiLeaks editor in chief appeared to have in common with the Daily Mail editor Paul Dacre, was a mutual abomination of the Guardian.
And yet, as Mr Dacre would no doubt be gracious enough to acknowledge, his paper has lately become so indebted to Mr Assange for prime Hollywood gossip that, if he has not done so already, it would be only fair to reward the traitor with a handsome staff contract or even a showbiz column of his own. Dacres would certainly have been a lesser product without the news  all courtesy of Assanges efforts  of Ben Afflecks slave-owning ancestry, of Sonys worries about thin Emily Blunt, of Margot Robbies potential as a real-life Barbie and of Leonardo DiCaprios private jet shame. Perhaps most piercing for British readers was the revelation of local celebrity Julian Fellowess pain on discovering that his former Hollywood agent had described him as awful.
No disrespect to the Mails showbusiness reporters but Assange has surely outstripped all rival contributors since his colleagues at WikiLeaks dumped a massive file of Sony Pictures emails (originally hacked by persons, allegedly North Korean persons, unknown) in a new, search-friendly format, accompanied by the founders high-minded justification. This archive shows the inner workings of an influential multinational corporation, Assange said. It is newsworthy and at the centre of a geopolitical conflict. It belongs in the public domain. WikiLeaks will ensure it stays there.
No government or corporation will ever be powerful enough to suppress, for instance, the fact that a famous friend of Sony Entertainments CEO once newsworthily tried to set up their famous mutual friend with someone also quite well known who fancied him, though it newsworthily didnt work out. Whether it reflects the evidence, in this cache, of people doing the sort of things they might well do inside a global film production company, or the shocking complacency of a meretricious western media, the geopolitical implications of Sonys emails appear to have attracted less attention than content featuring celebrities or money or bitching or anything remotely embarrassing to do with bottoms.
True, it emerges that Sonys head, Michael Lynton, as repellent-sounding an individual as you might expect, both courted and was courted by politicians, including Cameron, eager to associate with his companys money and influence. Silly them. At one point, Lynton decides he might get the former culture  and libraries  minister Ed Vaizey, with whom he had earlier appeared friendly, fired in favour of his real friend David Macmillan, a smart (in the social sense) publisher. But lets be fair: perhaps Lynton is a library lover. In any case, the WikiLeaks audience (or those parts of it not inhibited by the shadow of Leveson and threats
from Sony) turns out to be far more interested in the private lives, right down to the personal hygiene, of senior executives and any of their unfortunate, geopolitically negligible associates.
Once again, tweeted Glenn Greenwald, celebrated champion of the individual against the states covert mining of personal data, @wikileaks has performed a great journalistic function & service with this new archive. Although not so journalistic that it involved any effort at editing, so as to separate out politically and fiscally telling material from the morally indefensible. In terms of gossip, admittedly, there is no arguing with Greenwalds assessment: WikiLeakss lurch into celebrity scandal was instant inspiration to fellow content providers at Gawker and its sister blog, the purportedly feminist Jezebel. Hardly had WikiLeaks released 173,132 emails and more than 30,000 documents than the latters editors had fallen upon the (former) Sony Pictures chair, Amy Pascals Amazon shopping history, added scatological commentary and transformed it into clickbait gold.
In Pascals case, her status, added to earlier suggestions of casual racism, evidently amounts to a public interest argument that warrants any amount of ridicule, even that which appears less concerned with geopolitical cunning than with the absurdity of a middle-aged woman thinking her ancient person merited the application of beauty products.
But lesser members of staff who have neither cracked distasteful jokes about Obama nor had the impudence to buy La Prairie face cream, nor earned enough money to have forfeited all privacy rights, remain equally vulnerable to this form of dehumanisation. Questioned about this invasion of the privacy of those Sony employees and their correspondents who were naive enough to think their work email accounts safe for exchanges about, say, illnesses, bereavements and relationships, Greenwald tweeted: It wasnt @wikileaks that did the hack. And there is very close government dealings w/Sony. So by all means laugh at the expense of staff who rank too low to help progress Sonys sinister web of geopolitical alliances, but who nonetheless unwittingly volunteered for what is called, when GCHQ does it, the bulk interception of private correspondence.
In March, champions of civil liberties were unmoved by government protestations contained in its report , prompted by the Snowden revelations, to the effect that it examines only suspicious communications. The CEO of Index on Censorship, Jodie Ginsberg, said: Bulk and indiscriminate collection of data poses a serious and severe threat to our civil liberties, including our rights to free expression and to privacy. Though it should perhaps be taken into account, on GCHQs behalf, that at least it stops short of publishing archives of our data with a handy search box into which a fearless Gawker or Jezebel investigator can type, say, boobs or penis.
How much Greenwalds invocation of a greater good will soothe Sony employees whose data has been made so instantly trawlable can perhaps be gauged from the previously exposed and mocked. Julian Assange, for instance, has objected vigorously to media portrayal that, he said, took liberties with his privacy, even when the offending material (like the hacked Sony emails) was already accessible online. In 2012, Ofcom ruled that his privacy had not, after all, been violated in a Channel 4 documentary that showed him dancing in a club. Assange, it said, was not shown engaged in an activity which would reasonably be considered to be private or in circumstances which could normally give rise to a legitimate expectation of privacy.
But Assanges shyness, in that instance, is at least consistent with principles he outlined to writer Andrew OHagan, for an autobiography subsequently published without his authorisation. His early cypherpunk adventures, he stressed, were all about protecting individual privacy from data-hungry corporations and governments and his personal life was no exception; it was a category error to suggest otherwise. Disclosure is my business, he said, but we dont deal in gossip.
Well, he does now. Comments will be opened later today
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
