Class action privacy lawsuit filed against Facebook in Austria | Technology | The Guardian
Class action privacy lawsuit filed against Facebook in Austria
Case lead by privacy campaigner Max Schrems sees 25,000 users sue social network for alleged illegal tracking of their data and its involvement in the NSAs surveillance programme
Max Schrems spearheads a class action lawsuit over data privacy against Facebook.
A class action lawsuit over alleged breaches of EU privacy law, mass surveillance and involvement in the NSAs Prism snooping programme has been filed against Facebook in Vienna.
The lawsuit, which was officially filed in a Vienna court on Thursday, is being spearheaded by 27-year-old Austrian law graduate and privacy campaigner Max Schrems.
The closely-watched case sees 25,000 users suing the social network for various rights violations, ranging from the illegal tracking of their data under EU law to Facebooks involvement with the US National Security Agency.
Each of the plaintiffs is claiming a token amount of 500 (392) in damages, while a further 55,000 users have registered to join the procedures at a later stage.
Basically we are asking Facebook to stop mass surveillance, to (have) a proper privacy policy that people can understand, but also to stop collecting data of people that are not even Facebook users, said Schrems.
The case has been brought against Facebooks European headquarters in Dublin, which registers all accounts outside the US and Canada, accounting for approximately 80% of Facebooks 1.35 billion users.
Schrems was able to file his action against the Irish subsidiary in a civil court in Vienna because he claims Facebook is in breach of European law on users data.
Among other issues, judges will have to rule on Facebooks objection that the class action is inadmissible under Austrian law  an objection dismissed by Schrems lawyer as lacking any substance.
Schrems is also fighting to stop the US security services from gaining access to his personal data held by Facebook and other US technology firms. His case, which has been crowdfunded, is currently being heard in the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, Europes highest court.
 Data privacy: the tide is turning in Europe  but is it too little, too late?
 Leave Facebook if you dont want to be spied on, warns EU
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
