How we talk about the cloud shapes the way we perceive internet privacy | Technology | The Guardian
How we talk about the cloud shapes the way we perceive internet privacy
The semantics of the internet encourage us not to worry about who or what actually has control of our data
The cloud is not an invisible layer of data. It is a network of clumpy buildings packed full of servers.
For most of us, how we perceive the internet is significantly shaped by the language used to describe it: say web and dew-dropped silk comes to mind, net and woven knots of string, information superhighway and bright cars racing in the dark.
These names describe a system of disparate machines, giving shape to the network. Which name we choose has a large effect on how we perceive the structures that carry all our photos and emails and bank balances and work and subscriptions and love letters and affairs and charity donations.
With the shift in the infrastructure as all this information became stored remotely came a shift in language, and of perception. Now so central to our lives, how did the language of the internet, and the cloud, evolve?
The symbols on our screens are things we can manipulate in the real world: cogs, pulleys, files, magnifying glasses, binoculars, waste paper bins, compasses, calendars. These pictures use pre-digital imagery as a way to represent invisible processes. You may not be able to see what is really happening inside this box, they tell us. But it is in your control.
When computers first spread in use, these symbols made it easier for technology companies to communicate what our machines were doing. Many of these symbols are still used today. A quick glance over the screen of my laptop takes in cameras, stamps and interlaced gears. The original objects may be gone  my work is tucked into files with no filing cabinet in sight  but the symbols remain like hieroglyphics.
If the tendency up to now has been to ground computer-based interactions in the language of industry, the symbolism of the cloud goes in the opposite direction. A semantic shift is occurring, away from tactile objects towards boundless ether. You may not be able to see what is really happening inside your rectangle, the cloud tells us. But it doesnt matter. It doesnt even happen in there any more. It happens in something you cannot hope to grip.
The irony, of course, is that you can grip it. The cloud is not an invisible layer of data. It is a network of clumpy buildings packed full of servers. Cloud computing involves using a network of remote computers to process and store data instead of a single machine, but it is still a physical process. Facebook doesnt store its vast stockpile of photos in air. It stores it in enormous data centres in North Carolina, Oregon and Sweden. Google has data centres in remote Finland, Oregon and Iowa to name a few. Where is your data? It could be in any one of these locations, and is most likely in several of them.
As a term, the cloud has been around since at least 1996, when Compaq Computer engineers published a paper on the benefits of investing in what they referred to as cloud computing-enabled applications. One year later, Steve Jobs talked about moving storage from local machines to shared servers. Fast forward to 2011 and Google introduced the Chromebook  a laptop with the majority of data and applications living on the cloud. By the time we get to the present day, Dropbox, Google Drive, iCloud and OneDrive all offer remote storage solutions. As less data is stored on hard drives, our private lives increasingly centre on the cloud.
As a name, the cloud is at once a fluffy, approachable means to digest a global network of servers. It is also a vague, formless entity that grows and shrinks above our heads. In terms of privacy, it represents an important change in how we think about our data; stored in the arms of an invisible force, at once everywhere and nowhere.
Laurence Scott, author of The Four-Dimensional Human, tells me: To me the most striking thing about the semantics of the cloud is how the amorphousness it promises is in direct opposition to the commercial and political agendas at play within it.
The last thing corporations or governments who are mining our data would want is for us to manifest online as ethereal creatures: our personal data is prized for the vivid, defined portraits it produces of us, as consumers and, perhaps secondly, citizens.
Scotts book investigates the ways the digital world is rewiring our thoughts and perceptions. He writes about the way social media encourages us to engage in a 24/7 news cycle of the self, and that this perpetual broadcasting of dinners, bus trips, dates and museum visits leads us to approach situations in terms of social currency. He tells me, for example, about a student of his who looked up at Westminster Abbey and called it grammable.
As Scott suggests, there is an opposition between the supposed ethereality of the cloud and the indexed information held by its owners. The name leads us to believe our data is stored in a sublime, liminal dimension. In reality, that data is living in servers under the control of Amazon, Google, Facebook and so on. Our grammable images are subject to their privacy agreements, their security systems, and we therefore hand over our information with the trust that it wont leak or be shared against our wishes. But the semantics of the cloud make it a much easier pill to swallow, encouraging us not to worry about who or what actually has control of our data.
This isnt to say that those companies have shady intentions in mind, but the symbol they use is nevertheless a mirage. If icons on the internet have previously aimed at elucidating a vast network of integrated machines and processes, the cloud signals a movement towards incomprehensibility. You can touch your screen as much as you like, it says, but what happens away from that is out of your hands.
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
