How to protect your money, privacy and yourself if you win Powerball | Money | The Guardian
How to protect your money, privacy and yourself if you win Powerball
Several people beat the long odds to win the record $1.5bn jackpot. What should they do next? The first and most important step  sign your ticket
Now that youve beaten the odds once by winning, you can beat the odds again and hang on to your jackpot winnings.
I simply couldnt resist. With some $1.5b n at stake, I have succumbed to the Powerball mania sweeping the country, and purchased five random sets of numbers. This, even though I know my chances of winning are roughly equivalent to those of being hit by a thunderbolt hurled by Zeus on Olympus while dancing a jig with an Irish leprechaun.
I did it anyway. And spent a few days dreaming of what untold riches might bring me.
Related: On the frontlines of Powerball madness: 'there is so much hope', say store owners
That would probably be a lot of headaches, the likes of which I had never known, unless I did some very careful planning, from the moment I knew I had won. Certainly, winning this or any other big lottery prize would be transformative, and potentially not in a good way.
Most of those who buy lottery tickets on a regular basis  and those like me who pick up tickets when the jackpots get really, really big  tend to spend their time thinking about how to spend the money.
Should we win, however, we need to start at the other end of the spectrum, and start thinking about how to protect both our money and ourselves. Because there are some truly ugly statistics out there showing that 70% of lottery winners end up losing it all: some blow through all their money and end up destitute, while others end up losing their lives, even being murdered for their riches.
The first tip: do whatever you can to protect your privacy.
This may not be much. In many cases, the good folks at Powerball have the right to splash your name and image, clutching one of those giant faux cheques, across media organizations worldwide. So youd better be prepared.
The first step is to sign the back of your ticket. Otherwise, if you leave it sitting on top of the dresser in your bedroom, your grandchild or cleaner can grab it, sign the back, claim the prize and be off to the Bahamas with your billion-dollar prize, entirely legally.
After you sign it, and before you claim your prize, put that ticket in a safe deposit box. Then seek out a reputable lawyer, one accustomed to dealing with trusts and estates  even if the process of finding the right person takes you weeks or a few months. (Depending on the state in which you live, youll have anywhere from 90 days to a full year in which to claim your prize, so make full use of that breathing space.)
Not sure how to go about that? Turn to Google, and search under trusts and estates; look for a big, reputable law firm with a presence in many large cities and that is likely to have experts in many fields, including tax law, because youll need them. Dont worry, youll be able to afford them. Or, suggests Dave Littell, a professor at the American College of Financial Services, consult the American Bar Association, which maintains lists of experts in various fields. (The ABA can provide you with the track record of any lawyer and reassure you that she hasnt been disbarred.)
Next, brace yourself for the onslaught. If state laws allow  and most do  the lottery organizers will release your name, the city you live in and the county, as well as the exact size of the jackpot. From there, it will be fairly easy to find out where you live and get hold of your phone number  unless youve already moved. So, add a publicist to your list of recruits to Team Lottery Winner, and plan to be gone by the time the news breaks.
Think about renting a hotel room or house with the help of a trustworthy friend, or have your attorney create a limited liability company (LLC) that cannot be traced back to you and use it to rent or buy a new apartment or house. Change your phone numbers, and your e mail addresses, and take down your social media profiles. Give your employers a few hours notice of what is to come: more, and theyll tip off the media; less, and theyll feel blindsided. You dont want that, if its a job you want to keep doing because you actually like it or rely on it for a sense of meaning or purpose.
Have a strategic plan in place for how youll address this with family and friends, to avoid envy setting in. Youll want to share your good fortune, in all probability. So, sit down and think about what their needs and wants are  new houses, college tuitions, trust funds  and draw up a list. Then present those to them as gifts (and remember, there will be gift taxes to pay; make sure that the gifts are structured in such a way that youll be footing that bill, not them). That could help offset some of the inevitable strains that your newfound wealth will put on the friendship. At least it will mean they dont feel they can ask for money initially, and you arent confronted with the dilemma of wanting to say no, but not feeling able to do so.
Then, too, make it clear to them that the money is finite. A lottery win is a one-time event  if you have won this Powerball jackpot, youve already beaten ridiculous odds. To put it in context, you were 300 times more likely to be struck by lightning this year. While repeat winners arent unknown, basing a family financial plan on that kind of lightning striking twice would be foolish. Assume that this is all the cash you and your family will have for the rest of your lives  unless you go back to working  and plan accordingly.
Inevitably, of course, youll start hearing from various third cousins twice removed that you never knew you had, who want the same kind of stuff  houses, cars, backing in new businesses  that youre providing for your closest friends and family.
People feel entitled to ask you, outright, because they dont feel that you earned that money, says Littell. Youll have to find a way to shield yourself and your assets from those wannabe predators.
A first step is to have a good knowledge of your family tree, to winnow out the pretenders from the real relatives. Pass that along to a staff member, and make it their job to shield you from these requests. Give them a form letter that spells out that you have a non-profit philanthropic foundation, and they are welcome to apply to it for a grant.
Which brings me to the topic of philanthropy. With $1.5 bn, youll have the firepower to change the world, or at least a small corner of it, even if your wealth wont put you in the same league as Bill and Melinda Gates and their $44b n foundation. Best of all, working to give money away and to improve the lives of others will give you and your family a way to focus on something that is constructive involving the money that has just reshaped your lives. Working together, you can seek out projects that reflect your ideas and values, and transform the lives of others.
But you cant get started on that  or any of the other fun spending stuff  until after you secure your own financial future. That means making sure you make the right decision (for you and your family) on whether to take the lottery payout in the form of a lump sum or annual payments, and ensure that all the taxes are paid. Then, pay down all your outstanding debts  with the exception, perhaps, of your mortgage. (Its possible that the mortgage interest deduction may help lower your taxes in coming years, so talk to your accountant and tax adviser about this.)
Keep funding your retirement accounts and college savings plans, because  why not? You can afford to, in the best-case scenario, and in the worst-case scenario, where you turn into one of those statistics, well, you have just secured yourself against the nightmare of a poverty-stricken old age, or the prospect that your children wont be able to attend college. After reviewing your spending habits over the course of a year, ask your advisory team for some hard-headed advice: should you turn some or all of your remaining winnings into an annuity, so that it generates a safe stream of income over your remaining lifespan? (Make sure whoever you ask for advice wont get a commission from selling you such an annuity )
You may have chosen your winning Powerball combination via a random Quick Pick of numbers. Now that youve beaten the odds once by winning, you can beat the odds again and hang on to your jackpot winnings  but only if you take the time to plan carefully.
Winning the lottery is the ultimate retirement plan, says Dave Littell. You get to start your life over completely, and do precisely what you want.
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
