Employers take note: millennials are well-versed in online privacy | Media Network | The Guardian
Employers take note: millennials are well-versed in online privacy
Todays young people eat, drink and sleep social media  businesses could well reap the benefits from these future employees
A Pew Internet Research survey found that 60% of young people keep their Facebook profiles private.
It is a time-honoured tradition among the old to worry about the young. As soon as one generation has grown up, theyre busy fretting about how some new social or technological development is going to affect their children. In the 1960s, pelvis-wiggling rocknroll stars were going to corrupt the youth. Nowadays, its smartphones, social media and the internet.
In particular, privacy is the modern bogeyman for worried parents. The media often screams about youthful transgressions when it comes to privacy and there are concerning cases, certainly: teenagers fooled into sending compromising pictures of themselves, for example, or the growing phenomenon of cyberbullying.
These stories of oversharing may leave businesses worried. Are tomorrows employees in danger of posting too much online, embarrassing themselves and their employers? Could they divulge company secrets, perhaps, or bring businesses into disrepute? There is a ready supply of listicles immortalising the social media mistakes of the young.
The reality is more complex than the scare stories would have you believe; young people display a wide variety of behaviours online. While many use social networks such as Facebook and Twitter, they have an aversion to drama, and often take steps to limit the kinds of information available about themselves online. A Pew Internet Research survey from 2013 revealed that 60% keep their Facebook profiles private, while 74% have deleted people from their friends lists.
Senior partner at the Boston Consulting Group, John Rose, points out that young people are grappling to understand social media just as their elders are. In 2013 he wrote a report on big data, The Trust Advantage, in which he explored attitudes to privacy among different age groups.
Young people were no less interested in online privacy than older people, the study found: in the US, 71% of millennials (aged 18-24) believed people should be cautious about sharing personal information online. That same sentiment was shared by 81% of older millennials (25-34) and 84% of Gen Xers (35-48).
I would posit that there are more younger people now acting more thoughtfully about social media than there were two years ago  and more than there were four years ago, Rose says. Which makes sense; todays young people are digital natives who have grown up immersed in modern technology, whereas older employees have not.
Alisdair Pemble, an 18-year-old who is starting his English degree this autumn, has had a computer since he was four. He sees himself as a digital native. Growing up constantly involved in online interactions and surrounded by digital tools (according to Pew, 85% of young adults in the US use smartphones) gives young people an automatic sense of self-preservation, he explains.
When youre on it from a much younger age, you can play online games and people can like you and you find out about the security risks, he says. You learn to just not put seriously important stuff out there without being constantly aware of it. Hes seen and heard of other young people sharing information about themselves online and takes that on board. Its given him an implicit sense of privacy.
Lumping the young into a single category is a huge oversimplification. There are different social and economic strata of young people, explains Alice Marwick, assistant professor at Fordham University and an academic affiliate at Fordham Law Schools Center on Law and Information Policy (CLIP). Each of them has their own reasons for protecting themselves online.
Marwick explains how the prospect of going into higher education and meeting new people at university affects online behaviour: When I spoke to college students aged 18-21, 15 out of 18 said that they had a personal brand. So in that case you have these upper middle-class young people who are editing very carefully what theyre putting online.
Its a group thats highly active on social media, but also very self-censoring. Marwick says that young people from other backgrounds are equally adept when it comes to online privacy.
Mostly, young people seem to want privacy from their parents. With 61% of parents in Spain and the US spying on their kids Facebook accounts (54% in Italy and Canada) and with some parents destroying trust by shaming their kids on social networks, young people are caught in a tough place.
On the one hand theyre lectured about online privacy, while on the other theyre often deprived of it  and theyre navigating the whole thing while still developing social relationships and a sense of themselves. It was a complaint cited by a number of the teenagers interviewed by Marwick for her paper on the topic.
Largely speaking, the majority of young people are already far more versed in online privacy than their older counterparts, because of the unique challenges they face.
And thats the thing about young people: theyre often smarter than you think, if you take the time to put the hand-wringing headlines aside and listen to them. Alistairs mother, Wendy Goucher, has done a lot of that. She runs Goucher Consulting, a cybersecurity consulting firm specialising in the human component of online security and privacy.
She warns: If we try to drag these millennials back and hold their hands, well be insulting them. They know better than we do. These young people will be good for the workplace, she says, because they have already made their mistakes: Youngsters could come in with good habits, having been burned when it didnt matter, in the same way that some people in their late 20s and early 30s were older, and learned very badly.
So perhaps tomorrows companies will be more vibrant, privacy-savvy and astute online than they are today  so long as they get out of millennials way.
To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox,sign up free for Media Network membership.
All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled Brought to you by  find out more here.
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
