Surveillance ruling: GCHQ and privacy campaigners respond | UK news | The Guardian
Surveillance ruling: GCHQ and privacy campaigners respond
Reaction to the landmark ruling that GCHQ mass internet surveillance was unlawful, from the intelligence agency, Privacy International and others
Privacy International said the decision had vindicated the actions of NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden.
Reaction by privacy campaigners and others to Fridays landmark ruling that GCHQs mass surveillance was unlawful contrasts sharply with that of the intelligence agency itself.
Related: GCHQ mass internet surveillance was unlawful, court rules
While a GCHQ spokesperson insisted the ruling by Britains Investigatory Powers Tribunal (IPT) found against the authorities only in one small respect, Privacy International said the decision had vindicated the actions of Edward Snowden, the former US National Security Agency (NSA) whistleblower whose revelations led to the IPT investigation.
Downing Street said the judgment  which found that GCHQs access to intercepted information obtained by the NSA breached human rights law until the end of last year  did not require GCHQ to change its operations.
We are pleased that the court has once again ruled that the UKs bulk interception regime is fully lawful. It follows the courts clear rejection of accusations of mass surveillance in their December judgment.
The IPT has, however, found against the government in one small respect in relation to the historic intelligence-sharing legal regime.
The court has ruled that the public disclosure of two paragraphs of additional detail, voluntarily disclosed by the government during the litigation, were essential to make the public regime sufficiently foreseeable and therefore fully compatible with the European convention on human rights.
They found that to the extent that these two paragraphs were not previously in the public domain, the intelligence-sharing regime prior to that point was in contravention of human rights law.
But the judgment does not in any way suggest that important safeguards protecting privacy were not in place at all relevant times. It does not require GCHQ to change what it does to protect national security in any way.
Todays IPT ruling reaffirms that the processes and safeguards within the intelligence-sharing regime were fully adequate at all times  it is simply about the amount of detail about those processes and safeguards that needed to be in the public domain.
We welcome the important role the IPT has played in ensuring that the public regime is sufficiently detailed. By its nature, much of GCHQs work must remain secret.
But we are working with the rest of government to improve public understanding about what we do and the strong legal and policy framework that underpins all our work. We continue to do what we can to place information safely into the public domain that can help to achieve this.
We now know that, by keeping the public in the dark about their secret dealings with the NSA, GCHQ acted unlawfully and violated our rights. That their activities are now deemed lawful is thanks only to the degree of disclosure Liberty and the other claimants were able to force from our secrecy-obsessed government.
But the intelligence services retain a largely unfettered power to rifle through millions of peoples private communications  and the tribunal believes the limited safeguards revealed during last years legal proceedings are an adequate protection of our privacy. We disagree, and will be taking our fight to the European court of human rights.
Eric King, deputy director of Privacy International
For far too long, intelligence agencies like GCHQ and NSA have acted like they are above the law. Todays decision confirms to the public what many have said all along: over the past decade, GCHQ and the NSA have been engaged in an illegal mass surveillance sharing programme that has affected millions of people around the world.
We must not allow agencies to continue justifying mass surveillance programmes using secret interpretations of secret laws. The world owes Edward Snowden a great debt for blowing the whistle, and todays decision is a vindication of his actions.
But more work needs to be done. The only reason why the NSA-GCHQ sharing relationship is still legal today is because of a last-minute clean-up effort by government to release previously secret arrangements. That is plainly not enough to fix what remains a massive loophole in the law, and we hope that the European court decides to rule in favour of privacy rather than unchecked state power.
Elizabeth Knight, legal director at Open Rights Group
This ruling is a very welcome first step. It shows that secret policies are not an acceptable basis for highly intrusive intelligence sharing practices.
However, the IPT has not gone far enough. These flimsy policies are not enough to comply with the requirements of human rights law, even now they are public.
And GCHQs own Tempora programme of mass interception is clearly both unlawful and disproportionate. We hope the European court of human rights will go further than the IPT and find that mass surveillance breaches our human right to privacy.
After a decade and a half of siding with the government, it is welcome that the IPT is beginning to hold our spies to account.
But stark problems with the UKs surveillance system remain: for years the government has written itself a blank cheque to eavesdrop on confidential communications between lawyers and clients, even in cases where the government itself is in the dock.
This is totally unfair and undermines the core premise of our legal system.
The overall judgment this morning is that the UKs interception regime is fully lawful. That follows on from the courts clear rejection of accusations of mass surveillance in their December judgment, and we welcome that.
Its important to be clear that the overall interception regime and bulk interception they found fully, fully lawful, and that it was compliant with the right to privacy at all times.
What they said was, on the legal framework governing that, that there should be more about the rules that should be disclosed publicly. I think it was two paragraphs of additional detail, and the government did that during the proceedings.
They are not questioning in this judgment that the safeguarding of privacy was in any way jeopardised and the judgment will not require GCHQ to change what it does.
The spokeswoman added that the prime minister believes the government should make sure the intelligence agencies continue to have the powers they need to keep us safe.
On Twitter, the longer term consequences of the ruling were seized upon.
GCHQ's programmes found unlawful. Wait till this goes to the European Court after the election. Mass population surveillance is untenable
Glenn Greenwald, who was working for the Guardian when he and colleague Ewen MacAskill wrote the first stories based on Snowdens leaks, gave this reaction:
Why did Edward Snowden have to make us aware of all this? Would have been so much better if we remained ignorant http://t.co/CrKCvLHziV
And the Guardians editor-in-chief, Alan Rusbridger, wrote:
Illegal snooping by GCHQ. It's not the longest judgement in the world. But it couldn't be clearer pic.twitter.com/oIq5k2a8C5
For Philip Hammond, Britain's spies are unsung heroes of national security
Foreign secretary wants intelligence agencies to be able to intercept any communications data in face of unprecedented security demands
For Philip Hammond, Britain's spies are unsung heroes of national security
Philip Hammond: time to 'move on' from Snowden surveillance revelations
Foreign secretary says debate sparked US whistleblower Edward Snowden cannot be allowed to run on forever
Philip Hammond: time to 'move on' from Snowden surveillance revelations
Missing Syria schoolgirls stole family jewellery to fund trip, Met tells MPs: Politics Live blog
Andrew Sparrows rolling coverage of all the days political developments as they happen, including Philip Hammonds speech defending the intelligence services and the home affairs committee taking evidence from relatives of the girls who went to Syria and the Met police commissioner
Missing Syria schoolgirls stole family jewellery to fund trip, Met tells MPs: Politics Live blog
Mass surveillance warning after European terror attacks
Human rights watchdog says counter-terrorism proposals such as encryption ban suggest little has been learned from Snowden affair
Mass surveillance warning after European terror attacks
Today is a great victory against GCHQ, the NSA and the surveillance state
Today is a great victory against GCHQ, the NSA and the surveillance state
UK-US surveillance regime: statements by political figures before the ruling
UK-US surveillance regime: statements by political figures before the ruling
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
