Lawmakers only care about others' privacy when their own is at stake | Trevor Timm | Opinion | The Guardian
Lawmakers only care about others' privacy when their own is at stake
Itd be nice if Congress members were not only outraged with the NSA spying on Americans when the Americans happen to be them
The NSA has massive authority to collect data that far exceeds its stated aims of catching terrorists.
Last modified on Wednesday 30 December 2015 11.29EST
The Wall Street Journal published an extensive investigation on Tuesday night detailing how a large NSA spying operation targeting the Israeli government and its prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, also swept up communications of sitting members of Congress.
It shouldnt necessarily come as a surprise that the NSA is spying on Israeli leaders, given Israel has attempted to sabotage US foreign policy objectives like the Iran nuclear deal, and the fact that the Israeli intelligence services are notoriously aggressive in their own spying on the US government (See Newsweek reporter Jeff Steins excellent series on the extreme lengths Israel will go to spy on United States officials). But this latest story demonstrates the startling powers the NSA holds to collect the communications of other branches of government without repercussion. And its a prime example of how innocent Americans often end up in the databases of the worlds most powerful spy agency.
Unfortunately, its only when members of Congress are caught up in the NSAs dragnet that many of them start to pretend to care about the privacy of others. Former congressman Pete Hoekstra, who used to head the House intelligence committee and supported the NSAs illegal spying program under George W Bush, tweeted that the NSA and Obama administration should be prosecuted if there were any truth to the Journal report.
Weve seen this before: former Democratic ranking member of the House intel committee Jane Harmon was also a critical defender of Bushs wiretapping program in the mid-2000s  that is, until she was caught on NSA wiretaps talking to an alleged Israeli agent. Then she quickly changed her tune. Likewise, Senator Dianne Feinstein, who is notorious for defending the NSA no matter the scandal, so strongly condemned the NSA for spying on Germanys Angela Merkel that a lot of people suspected she was so enraged because it was likely she was on some of Merkels recorded phone calls.
Itd be nice if members of Congress were not only outraged with the NSA spying on Americans when the Americans happen to be them.
Tracking Israels government may be a legitimate use for surveillance, but the Journal report still gets to the heart of why the NSAs vast spying powers can be so worrying and their justifications so misleading. Congress wasnt targeted for NSA spying, but because the NSA casts its net at so many different targets overseas  sometimes that can mean an entire countrys communications in bulk  undoubtedly there are countless innocent Americans who have their communications swept into NSA databases all the time, including members of Congress.
While the NSA has minimization procedures that supposedly protect Americans privacy  the Journal report describes how the NSA only says things like US person in their intelligence reports instead of the persons name when its an American  there are plenty of ways that authorities can still get that information if they want it. As the Journal explains, all the executive branch has to do is ask for a name and they can get it (theres no evidence the White House did in this case). And we know that the FBI goes back into the NSA databases without a warrant to look for US persons who communicated with people outside the country so much that they cant even count how many times theyve done it.
Congress had the chance to fix this so-called backdoor loophole when they passed the USA Freedom Act six months ago, but they failed to do so. Maybe now that its clear even they are vulnerable they will reconsider.
While all the defenses of NSA mass spying usually revolve around terrorism, the Journal investigation is yet another reminder that the NSA often uses its vast powers for surveillance of things that have little or nothing to do with terrorism directed at the United States. As former NSA director Michael Hayden candidly put it last year, the NSA doesnt just listen to bad people. NSA listens to interesting people. People who are communicating information.
Senator and now-presidential candidate Bernie Sanders asked the NSA in 2014 about how and when it conducted surveillance of members of Congress. The response: Members of Congress have the same privacy protections as all US persons. In other words, not much.
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
