Cashless welfare card could breach right to privacy  human rights committee | Australia news | The Guardian
Cashless welfare card could breach right to privacy  human rights committee
Parliamentary joint committee asks social services minister to explain how the bill is compatible with human rights
Under the plan, people would receive 20% of their benefits as cash and the rest would be locked on a debit card that could not be used to buy alcohol or gamble.
The proposed cashless welfare card could breach the right to privacy and indirectly discriminate against Indigenous people, women and people with disabilities, according to the bipartisan human rights committee.
Related: Indigenous and community groups condemn cashless welfare card plan
Under the plan, people on the unemployment payment Newstart, the youth allowance, the disability support payment and carers allowance payments would receive 20% of their benefits as cash and the rest would be locked on a debit card that could not be used to buy alcohol or gamble.
The parliamentary joint committee on human rights, made up of three Liberal party members, three Labor party members, two Nationals, one Greens member and one independent, has issued the social services minister with a request to explain how the bill is compatible with human rights, specifically the right to privacy.
Restricting how a person can access, and where they can spend, their social security benefits, interferes with the persons right to personal autonomy and therefore their right to a private life, the report says.
People on the dole would get $51.90 a week in cash, those on youth allowance would get $23.35 and people on the DSP and carer payment would receive $86. The rest of their benefits would be placed on the debit card, trials of which are due to start in February. It would only be able to be used at approved businesses.
The human rights committee listed its concerns with this approach, including the many instances when people could only use cash such as at markets, on public transport, to give to family members, buying second-hand goods and at stores that had minimum purchase requirements for debit cards.
Related: Tony Abbott: welfare card will help lift Indigenous people 'by their bootstraps'
This restriction undoubtedly impacts on how a person is able to conduct their private life and represents the extension of government regulation into the private and family lives of the persons affected by these trials, the report says.
The committee also said the government was yet to clearly demonstrate that income management had the beneficial effects hoped for.
It asked the social services minister  then Scott Morrison, now Christian Porter  to provide evidence that restricting welfare was likely to be effective in reducing hardship, deprivation, violence and harm, and would encourage socially responsible behaviour and reduce the likelihood of harassment and abuse; and whether the limitation was a reasonable and proportionate measure for the achievement of that objective.
It also asked for evidence the legislation was compatible with rights to privacy.
Indigenous people, women and people with disabilities could also be indirectly discriminated against because of the policy, the report says, finding that although the cashless welfare arrangements were not made on the basis of race or culture, they disproportionally affected certain groups.
The ministers response will be tabled along with another report from the committee.
The Australian Council of Social Service released its submission to the Senate inquiry into the bill this week, urging the government to release a report of consultations undertaken for the policy, including information given to community members, concernsraised, community perspectives, numbers reach and outcomes.
We have long opposed compulsory forms of income management, except in cases where schemes have clear individual or community support, said the Acoss chief executive, Cassandra Goldie.
Previous experience shows that, beyond some limited success where people have entered into a scheme voluntarily, there is no evidence of widespread or long-term benefit from income management.
Related: Labor party 'will consider' cashless welfare debit cards legislation
We are concerned about schemes that are imposed broadly on groups of people according to type of payment or category of circumstance, rather than by reference to a specific individuals circumstances. Income management schemes of this type misunderstand the relationship between income support and drug and alcohol and other problems and attempt to apply a technological fix to a complex social issue.
The opposition is yet to declare a position on the card. When the legislation was introduced the then parliamentary secretary to the prime minister, Alan Tudge, said the card represented a radical new positive approach to the distribution of welfare.
The main objective of the card is to address the very serious welfare-fuelled alcohol, drug and gambling abuse, [which] as youd be aware, is rife in some communities, he said. We hope it will have a serious impact on those issues.
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
