The Spotify privacy backlash: what is my personal data really worth? | Paul Mason | Opinion | The Guardian
The Spotify privacy backlash: what is my personal data really worth?
We are living in an era where big companies want to exploit the information weve given them for free. This powerful knowledge could be used for good  or to create entire business empires
With your permission, we may collect information stored on your mobile device, such as contacts, photos, or media files ... No, that wasnt GCHQ  it was the new terms of service imposed by Spotify, prompting user-outcry last week. Within 24 hours, the music-streaming service had to clarify that it will allow individual opt-outs. But, it was an example of the pressure tech firms are under to monopolise aggregated consumer data.
As well as my photos, contacts, audio and video, Spotify wants the right to collect data not just on my location but the speed of your movements, such as whether you are running, walking, or in transit. It would see what I post and like on Facebook and it will store my credit card information, share it with payment processors and use all of this to fire adverts at me.
The policy caused a storm. Indeed, Spotify CEO Daniel Ek titled his blog in response to the furore: Sorry. But this is not just about privacy. What Spotify wants to do is to commercialise the aggregated knowledge it gets for free when we interact on the network. Its justification is that it will make our user experience better. But the control and knowledge over the aggregated data will be for Spotify, not us.
Economists call this free information, generated by networked interaction, a positive externality  a third thing produced for free, accidentally, by the interaction of buyers and sellers. The Spotify case is a textbook example of how the struggle over these externalities is becoming paramount.
Lets imagine all 75 million people who use Spotify agree to sign up. The average smartphone user takes 150 pictures a month. So Spotify gets access to 135 billion photographs a year. (Spotify says it will only use or access images that you specifically choose to share.) Theres a lot you can do with a photograph: you can recognise the faces in it; plot it against the location it was taken and its time. You can analyse the colours to determine whether its a selfie taken at a gig or a nude picture to be sent to a loved one. And then you can crunch the data.
Over time, you could learn a lot about an individual. Just as they say Tesco can know youre pregnant before you do, from changes to your food-buying patterns, so Spotify might easily work out who youre falling in love with. But you could also find out a lot of socially useful information: the average skin tone at a certain dance club; the gender mix at a Jeremy Corbyn rally.
What does Spotify actually want to do with all these photos? There is no mention of anything as megalomaniac as the above. Its spokeswoman told me: Were always testing new product features and the ability to match music with images is something that is often requested by our users. We will always ask for individual permission or clearly inform you of the ability to opt out from sharing photos. And it says there is a strictly limited set of staff who can access user data.
This takes us to the heart of the problem with externalities. In traditional economics there is a clear distinction between an objects usefulness and its price. The one depends on the other but they are different concepts: usefulness and exchange value. Even with digital information this distinction survives. The usefulness of a track on my iPod is that I like listening to it, its price is 99p because Apple decreed it should be so. But once we get into networked information, producing random and spontaneous new knowledge as people interact, the distinction between use and value is not so clear.
Suppose all the big supermarkets aggregated all their customer data, anonymised it, and gave it to NHS epidemiologists to data-mine for free. Experts in social health could quickly understand the food-buying habits in streets where diseases of poverty are usually clustered; they could even anticipate new health problems as they watched the data change over time.
This is an example of externalities as pure use-value. But wall off the same data, and keep it linked to specific peoples identities  which is what happens with customer relationship management operations of big companies  and now the same data has commercial value. The more you can wall it off, the more unequal you can make the exchange of information between customer and company, the more value that aggregated data has.
So in a networked economy, where networks are producing petabytes of free, socially relevant knowledge every day, what to do with that knowledge becomes the central question.
The French economist Yann Moulier Boutang believes were living through the emergence of a new type of cognitive capitalism, in which the main form of exploitation is the co-operation of brains in networks. If so, he writes, capturing positive externalities becomes the No 1 problem of value. That is, the whole business model of the 21st-century giant firm  Apple, Facebook, Google, Amazon  relies on the relentless capture of these externalities.
Even if thats overstating it, the struggle over network-produced data, and whether it should be commercialised, or be free for social utility, is a big question and a new one. And heres why the answer isnt black and white. I gain significant social benefit from using Spotify. Because I am renting the music, not buying it, I can listen to a wider range of music than what I am prepared to buy on iTunes. Conversely artists get less revenue per track from Spotify. Horrible though that is for the artist, it alters the economic balance of the music industry in my favour. And because I can create and share playlists, and dip into the playlists of others, my listening becomes social. These shared playlists, recommendations, shared subtexutal statements about my moods etc, are an example of the utility aspect generated by the network effect. It is more useful to me the more songs I can access and the more friends I can find on there.
As my phone-contacts list includes CEOs and prime ministers, and because my photostream includes snapshots of leaked documents, I will still be thinking very carefully about whether to stay on Spotify.
The problem with Spotifys original stance is it gave me minimal power to negotiate, refuse or modify who gets what from the aggregated data my use creates. And in that it was not alone - thats the default position with tech giants, and it takes the threat of a user revolt even to get their attention. Entire business empires are being built on such non-negotiable seizure of rights to networked data. My hunch is they will turn out to be built on sand.
Paul Mason is economics editor of Channel 4 News. @paulmasonnews
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
