Flyboy Style: How to Wear a Bomber Jacket - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Mens Style|Flyboy Style: How to Wear a Bomber Jacket
Once worn exclusively by military pilots and now a staple of mens fashion shows, the flight jacket (also known as the bomber jacket) has over the years made the transition from the runway to, well, the runway.United States military pilots wore an early incarnation, the A-2 (think of the jacket worn by Indiana Jones), from the early 1930s through World War II. This model, usually made of horsehide, established the jackets cut, and a revised version is still in use today.At the end of the 1940s came the MA-1 flight jacket, in waterproof nylon, with an orange lining to increase the visibility of downed aviators, and this is the model that has inspired 21st-century designers.Bomber jackets became something of a uniform of British punks and skinheads in the 1970s, some of whom were captured in their attire by the photographer Derek Ridgers. In the early 1990s, the jacket had the right look for those in the West Coast hip-hop scene.
Sam Lobban, the buying manager of the e-commerce site Mr Porter, said that since 2012, he had seen a 150 percent growth in net sales of bomber jackets. They made up 20 percent of the coats and jackets sold on the site in 2015. I think the beauty of the bomber is its iconic simplicity, Mr. Lobban said.If you walk into Bloomingdales in New York, youll find a wide assortment of flight jackets in the mens department. To wear one is to project an air of sartorial defiance. But now that the bomber is no longer worn mainly by flyboys or members of subcultures, has it lost some of its cool?Of course, there is a sort of rebellion in wearing a shapeless round piece as outerwear in todays world, said Riccardo Tisci, the Givenchy creative director, who has included a bomber in almost all of his mens collections since 2010. This piece is now a real part of my ideal mens wardrobe.The democratization of the bomber owes something to how easy it is to wear. Short at the hip and wide at the shoulder, its comfortable and it fits most body types. The bomber is a very masculine sportswear piece, Mr. Tisci said. This is why it appeals to so many. It sort of mans up any silhouette.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page D12 of the New York edition with the headline: A Style That Has Earned Its Wings.
On HBOs Girls, a Kitty Genovese Plot Proves Eerily Timed
Uber Driver Napped as His Passenger Led Highway Chase, Police Say
A New Rhode Island Slogan Encounters Social Medias Wrath
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
