Fancy a little kinky sex? GCHQ+NSA will know - thanks to ANGRY BIRDS  The Register
Vivaldi Jon: Mobile  yes. Feeds and an ad blocker probably not
Costa Rica launches investigation after reports hackers rigged 2014 election
What did the one Toshiba desktop SSD say to the other? Our cell size has shrunk
BOFH: Sure, I could make your cheapo printer perform miracles
Vendor: Do we need Quality of Service with shared storage arrays?
Vivaldi Jon: Mobile  yes. Feeds and an ad blocker probably not
Google adds Cloud Test Lab integration to new Android Studio 2.0
Google to admins: We'll tell you when your network is pwned
Cash-strapped Sprint to raise $2.2bn by flogging off its network hardware
China's Great Firewall inventor forced to use VPN live on stage to dodge his own creation
Verizon peeps gobbled by Frontier enter week two of crap internet
Costa Rica launches investigation after reports hackers rigged 2014 election
Academics claim Google Android two-factor authentication is breakable
SANS man lists five security things you're not doing but should
Google to admins: We'll tell you when your network is pwned
Managing infrastructure, a newbie's guide: Simple stuff you need to know
We bet your firm doesn't stick to half of these 10 top IT admin tips
Windows 7's grip on the enterprise desktop is loosening
Puppet snags COO, ties up partners, and renames itself
Continuous Lifecycle: Just ten conference tickets left
Wanna be a DevOps expert? Youll have to be a Red Hat expert first
GCHQ is having problems meeting Osborne's 2020 recruitment target
GDS has no real strategy for 450m budget pot, internal plan reveals
Troubled Azzurri Comms offloaded to AIM-listed Maintel
Fujitsu Services hacks bonuses to pay for minimum wage hike
Field technicians want to grab my tool and probe my things
London to Dover 'smart' road could help make driverless cars mainstream  expert
Oculus, why do you need to record our every move? Al Franken asks
FBI Director defends iPhone 5C unlock tool that's obviously going to leak into wrong hands
Dropping 1,000 cats from 32km: How practical is that?
Britain is sending a huge nuclear waste shipment to America. Why?
Bavarian town rescinds Hitler's honorary citizenship
Florida weed suspect cuffed after hoverboard pursuit
Brits rattle tin for 'revolutionary' hydrogen-powered car
Fancy a little kinky sex? GCHQ+NSA will know - thanks to ANGRY BIRDS
Evil spooks slurped EVERYTHING about your life from app's phone-home data
At last: Boffins have an answer to EXPLODING Li-ion, Earth-poisoning alkaline batteries
Samsung Bend-ghazi blast: We DEMAND a do-over on Galaxy S6 Edge
Don't be stiffed by spies, stand up to Uncle Sam with your proud d**k pics  says Snowden
Some of the world's most popular smartphone applications are telling British and American intelligence agencies everything about you  from your location to your politics or whether you're part of the swinging set.
That's according to classified documents leaked by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden.
The dossier, published today by ProPublica and The New York Times, show the NSA and its Brit counterpart GCHQ were working together on exploiting smartphones in 2007, the same year as the first iPhone launched. The NSA nearly quadrupled its budgets for such monitoring from $204m to $767m that year.
A top-secret report compiled by the NSA shortly after that time boasted the agency had collected so much information from phones running Google's mapping applications that "you'll be able to clone Google's database." In 2008 British intelligence reported "anyone using Google Maps on a smartphone is working in support of a GCHQ system."
Poorly secured mobile apps have proved to be a "golden nugget," according to a May 2010 NSA presentation: harvesting sensitive data sent over public networks by applications is not a problem, but it was a little trickier to tag the intercepted information in the agency's XKeyscore database so that analysts could easily pull up a person's records. In the same year a British analyst described the development of smartphone slurping as a "mobile surge," comparing it to the surge of US and allied troops into Iraq and Afghanistan.
A 2012 British intelligence document states that the immensely popular Angry Birds game from Finnish developer Rovio had become a useful source thanks to advertising code added by US firm Millennial Media.
Millennial's tracking software generates a personal record for each user that can store information from their political affiliation and sexual orientation to whether their marital state was single, married, divorced, engaged or "swinger." This information is used to target in-app ads more effectively, and can be collected by UK and US intelligence agencies for analysis, we're told.
The documents don't suggest that NSA and GCHQ staffers are directly hacking mobile applications. Instead it's made clear the snoopers are simply skimming and decoding sensitive data the apps collect and transmit back to their developers. One report noted that anyone updating Android on a device will leak about 500 slurpable records describing how the gadget was used by its owner.
NSA does not profile everyday Americans as it carries out its foreign intelligence mission, the agency said in a statement. Because some data of US persons may at times be incidentally collected in NSA's lawful foreign intelligence mission, privacy protections for US persons exist across the entire process, with similar protections for innocent foreign citizens.
GCHQ declined to comment on the allegations, but said its activities were compliant with today's UK law. Google and Millennial Media havent commented as yet.
Your tinfoil hat is useless  your browser lets spies into your mind
Other Snowden-sourced information published by NBC News today revealed [PDF] that in 2012 GCHQ developed technology, code named Squeaky Dolphin, to spy on people en masse as they used social networks and other big-name websites.
The British tapped into internet data cables running though the UK and scooped out Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Blogger visits to see what's trending online and where hotspots of interest spring up around the world in various topics.
The Human Science Operations Cell also compiled data on what a particular browser choice told them about a user's behavior. Internet Explorer users scored lowest in being open to new experiences but highest in "agreeableness" and "conscientiousness," while Firefox users are the most neurotic, apparently.
But Snowden, who gave his first TV interview for German network ARD on Sunday, claims that the NSA wasn't above hacking business systems if it felt the information would further US interests. He said that the German manufacturer Siemens was a particular favorite among spies in this regard, and that non-key German government targets may also have been infiltrated.
"What I can say is that we know that [German Chancellor] Angela Merkel was monitored by the NSA. But the question is how logical is it that she's the only one who was monitored, how likely is it that she was the German person the NSA was watching?" he said, Reuters reports.
"I'd say that it's not very likely that anyone who was watching the German government was only watching Merkel and not her advisers nor other government officials nor ministers, heads of industries or even local government officials."
Snowden said he no longer had any NSA documents himself, having passed them all on to journalists around the world. Despite death threats from certain excitable US intelligence operatives, Snowden said he was unconcerned for his safety.
"I'm still alive and don't lose sleep for what I did because it was the right thing to do," he added. 
LG picks up US smartphone crumbs, gains on Apple and Samsung
Google to unleash Android Pay on UK shoppers within 'months'
Don't belive in plastic or paper? Try silicon and bytes
Court to Wikimedia: Your NSA spying evidence is inadmissable, so you can't prove NSA spying
Future Snowden hunt starts with audit of NSA spooks' privileges
Rounded corners on Android phones cost Samsung $548m: It will pay up to Apple after all
Speaking in Tech: Did the FBI not ask the NSA to take a crack at breaking iOS?
Hacker attacks are evolving to target applications and to focus on financial gain. This report brings you the key findings and conclusions of this year-long research effort.
According to Gartner analyst Allan Daley, we are living in an unstructured, data nightmare.
Cybersecurity perspectives from the boardroom and C-suite
A survey of over 700 C-Suite executives to understand any patterns, as well as any differing or aligning attitudes on cybersecurity
With every step forward, flash storage is becoming faster, more reliable, and less expensive.
China's Great Firewall inventor forced to use VPN live on stage to dodge his own creation
Megabreach: 55 MILLION voters' details leaked in Philippines
Microsoft rethinks the Windows application platform one more time
Britain is sending a huge nuclear waste shipment to America. Why?
PC World's cloudy backup failed when exposed to ransomware
You say I mustnt write down my password? Let me make a note of that
Norman Conquest, King Edward, cyber pathogen and illegal gambling all emerge in Apple v FBI
BlackEnergy malware activity spiked in runup to Ukraine power grid takedown
Learn things? DROWN HTTPS flaw proves we don't even test things
New Free Guide: How to fix SQL Server deadlocks. Read now
Sign up to The Register to receive newsletters and alerts
Independent news, views, opinions and reviews on the latest in the IT industry. Offices in London, San Francisco and Sydney.
