New York Moves on Restricting Costumed Characters in Times Square - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
N.Y. / Region|New York Moves on Restricting Costumed Characters in Times Square
New York Moves on Restricting Costumed Characters in Times Square
Abdel Amine Elkhezzani, a Spider-Man performer in Times Square, spoke with Councilman Ydanis Rodriguez at City Hall on Thursday about a bill to restrict costumed characters.
After a furor last summer over topless women and menacing superheroes, New York City is moving to rein in the performers who hustle for tips in Times Square.The City Council voted on Thursday to allow the citys Transportation Department to create new rules for pedestrian plazas that could restrict Times Squares costumed characters and painted women to designated zones. The changes could significantly change the atmosphere of the popular public space.The transportation commissioner, Polly Trottenberg, has proposed creating activity zones for commercial pursuits and separate flow zones for pedestrians. Elmo and Batman would have to stay in the commercial zones while taking photos with tourists in exchange for tips.City officials said the rules were meant to restore order to the gleaming Disneyfied plazas that have transformed the seedy Times Square of the 1980s. Concerns over aggressive tip seekers became a prominent issue last summer when topless women wearing body paint, known as desnudas, joined the fray.In a high-profile arrest in 2014, a man dressed as Spider-Man punched an officer in the face. Other characters have been caught in other scuffles or accused of using explicit language.
Times Square has been a victim of its own success, said Councilman Corey Johnson, a sponsor of the bill. Performers should be able to make an honest buck in the plazas, he said, but some go too far. People should be able to walk through Times Square without being harassed and harangued, said Mr. Johnson, a Democrat.After the issue erupted last summer, Mayor Bill de Blasio said he would consider removing the plazas, prompting criticism from transportation groups that said the plazas had improved traffic safety. Police Commissioner William J. Bratton said he wanted to dig the whole damn thing up. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo was not far behind, saying the topless women undermined the family-friendly nature of the square the city wanted to promote.On Thursday, several performers in superhero costumes came to the Council Chambers to defend their profession. Abdel Amine Elkhezzani, a Spider-Man performer in Times Square, said he would lose most of his business if he had to stay in a certain zone.
Mr. Elkhezzani leaving City Hall on Thursday. He has been dressing as Spider-Man in Times Square for over 10 years.
We go up to people and interact with them and entertain them and kind of convince them to take pictures with us, said Mr. Elkhezzani, who is a different performer from the man who was arrested. They dont come up to us  maybe 5 percent come up to us.The bill passed 42 to 1, with five council members abstaining. It lets the Transportation Department regulate city plazas and create rules particular to Times Square. Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, is expected to sign the bill.Times Square is one of the most iconic and visited places in the city, and the Councils legislation goes a long way toward making the experience better and more enjoyable for New Yorkers and tourists alike, Austin Finan, a spokesman for the mayor, said in a statement.After the Transportation Department formally proposes the rules, there will be a 30-day public comment period. The rules could take effect in May or June.The citys proposal for the activity zones in Times Square mirrors recommendations last September from a coalition of elected officials and business leaders. On Thursday, the Times Square Alliance applauded the passage of the bill.
Legal experts were divided over whether any new rules could withstand a challenge over free speech. Norman Siegel, a civil rights lawyer, said the city was inviting a lawsuit because the rules could place limits on where topless performers could stand and exercise their First Amendment rights. Mr. Siegel said he believed the courts would eventually weigh in on the matter. In a quintessential public space, can the city argue that you can only be limited to a specific section? he said.Eugene Volokh, a First Amendment expert at the U.C.L.A. School of Law, said the citys proposed rules did not appear to be unconstitutional. So long as theyre targeting the activity because of its commercial nature, rather than its message, I think it should be fine, Mr. Volokh said.In an interview, Ms. Trottenberg said the city was careful about ensuring First Amendment rights. She compared establishing plaza rules to how the citys parks department regulates its spaces. They have traditionally had a pretty strong ability to determine where vending occurs and where performances occur, she said.At City Hall, Mr. Elkhezzani wore his Spider-Man costume but said he was not allowed to wear his mask in the building. He said he would sue the city if the police tried to arrest him under the proposed new rules, citing free-speech concerns.
I have a right to walk in a public space in my Spider-Man costume, he said. If somebody wants to take pictures with me, thats their right.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: City Moves Forward With Restricting Costumed Characters in Times Square.
The Desnudas of Times Square, Topless but for the Paint
Times Squares Costumed Characters Resist Push to Rein Them In
The Desnudas of Times Square, Topless but for the Paint
Times Squares Costumed Characters Resist Push to Rein Them In
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
