Flash drive with employee data missing from Eastern Health office - Local - The Telegram
Teens charged with street racing released from jail
Flash drive with employee data missing from Eastern Health office
Eastern Health has announced a USB flash drive is missing from its human resources department.
According to a statement released this morning, a USB flash drive containing a spreadsheet  with data on 9,000 employees  went missing from an office in the department June 26.
On behalf of Eastern Health, I want to publicly apologize to our employees whose personal information was on the missing flash drive, said David Diamond, EasternHealth president and CEO, according to the statement. We take all breaches of privacy very seriously and are committed to exploring ways to further strengthen our privacy practices surrounding safe security measures and the storage of information on portable devices.
Eastern Health employee knew rules were broken by file access
Eastern Health discloses another "accidental" breach of privacy
The spreadsheet had the names, employee numbers and social insurance numbers of 3,300 employees, as well as names and employee numbers only of 5,700 more employees.
Eastern Health says the drive was last used June 17, two days before it was reported missing. An internal investigation has failed to turn up the drive, and the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner has been notified and has begun a formal investigation. Eastern Health says theres no evidence the information on the drive has been used for fraudulent purposes.
The health authority said it will start contacting by phone today the 3,300 employees whose social insurance numbers were on the spreadsheet, and send letters to the 5,700 other employees starting Monday. Eastern Health also said it will be providing information to employees to help protect themselves against identity theft.
dmaceachern@thetelegram.com, Twitter: @DanMacEachern
Another day, another problem at eastern health. All that changes are the incompetent people in charge.
Paradise Park could be venue for major summer music concert
Teachers going to court to fight sunshine list disclosure
Frustrated cabin owner says illegal neighbour must move
Do not miss your latest complete newspaper edition.
NDW presents FREE Public Performance of: Home Front:...
Multicultural Dinner and Concert to raise funds to...
Do you think the provincial government should pass sunshine list legislation to make public the names, positions and taxable income details of provincial employees who make $100,000 or more?
Long standing, well known and well respected business woman of Placentia, passed peacefully away Thursday,
Passed peacefully away at his residence on Tuesday, April 5, 2016, with his family at
Passed away peacefully on Monday, April 4th, 2016 at the Health Science Centre surrounded by
Transcontinental Media G.P.1100 Rene-Levesque Blvd. West, Montreal, QC H3B 4X9(514) 392-9000
