Doing Your Taxes? Here Are Some Last-Minute Tips - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Your Money|Doing Your Taxes? Here Are Some Last-Minute Tips
Theres not much time left to get your paperwork together and finish those tax returns.Weve collected advice and guidance to help you out.
(By the way: Because of a collision with a District of Columbia holiday, you have three extra days to procrastinate. The deadline for your 2015 federal return is April 18. Massachusetts and Maine get another extra day because of state holidays on the 18th.)Software Goes Only So FarTurboTax, H&R; Block, TaxAct and other software programs can automate the calculations, but you still have to do the groundwork. Heres how the programs compare.
Peter Barreras/Intuit TurboTax, via Associated Press
Organizing the Paper ChaseWe have a guide to the supporting paperwork and the right forms you need to get certain deductions and credits.
See if any of these last-minute maneuvers  including contributing to an I.R.A.  can help cut your tax obligation.Whats That 1095?
Its the first major new employee tax form to be widely distributed in decades. We explain where it came from and what to do with it.
Gain some insight from how we cut the tax burden for Samuel P. and Felicity Q. Public, a suburban couple of modest income.Are You a 1099er?
Are you part of the on-demand economy? You, and other independent contractors whose income is reported on 1099 forms, must keep track of many extra details. Find some help here.Home, Sweet Deduction
Use your mortgage  or, rather, the tax deduction on your mortgage interest  to bring down your other debt more cheaply.Make the Golden Years Penny-Wise
If youre newly retired, you most likely have an odd challenge: a lower tax bracket and taxable payments from retirement accounts. Heres how you can make that combination tax-efficient. Continue reading the main story
These Two Guys Are Changing How We Think About Fashion
For Staff on Naked and Afraid, Work Is Just a Blur
Merle Haggard and Okie From Muskogee, the Hit That Helped and Hurt Him
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
