The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Embraces N.W.A, and Ice Cube Is Cool With It - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Music|The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Embraces N.W.A, and Ice Cube Is Cool With It
The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Embraces N.W.A, and Ice Cube Is Cool With It
Ice Cube, one of the core members of N.W.A, which will be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
On Friday night in Brooklyn, the rap group N.W.A will join an array of white men with guitars as honorees at the 31st annual Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony.As only the fifth hip-hop act ever voted in (after Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five, Run-DMC, the Beastie Boys and Public Enemy), and the first not from New York, this Compton, Calif., group represents by far the most unconventional selection in a Hall of Fame class that is rounded out by classic-rock radio favorites from the late 1960s and 70s: Cheap Trick, Chicago, Deep Purple and Steve Miller.For N.W.A  whose core members included Ice Cube, Dr. Dre, Eazy-E, M.C. Ren and D.J. Yella  the honor comes on the heels of a legacy-defining year that brought the release of the biopic Straight Outta Compton. The film, released last fall, went on to gross more than $160 million at the box office, while revitalizing interest in N.W.As brash, political gangster rap. (The group released just two studio albums, in 1988 and 1991; Eazy-E died in 1995.)Ahead of the ceremony, a mostly diplomatic Ice Cube, 46, who went from incendiary solo albums like AmeriKKKas Most Wanted to starring in mainstream comedies like Ride Along 2 and the Barbershop movies, discussed the Rock Hall with reverence. He argued that rock n roll is an attitude, not a sound, and explained why N.W.A would not be performing at the event. (The show, at the Barclays Center, will be aired by HBO on April 30.) These are edited excerpts from the conversation.How much do you think Straight Outta Compton helped to legitimize N.W.A in the eyes of an institution like the Rock Hall and its voters?
I think it was the thing that put us over the top. [N.W.A had been nominated three times before.] The movie was able to remind them of the impact of the group on pop culture and that the music is just as much rock n roll as anything. Rock n roll is a form of sped-up blues to me.Does this help to blunt the disappointment of being overlooked by the Academy Awards?No. Its apples and oranges to me. The music business is the music business, and the movie business is the movie business.Gene Simmons, of Kiss, said a few years ago that rappers didnt belong in the Hall of Fame, because they dont play guitar or sing. I respect Gene Simmons, but I think hes wrong on this, because rock n roll is not an instrument and its not singing. Rock n roll is a spirit. N.W.A is probably more rock n roll than a lot of the people that he thinks belong there over hip-hop. We had the same spirit as punk rock, the same as the blues.Is everyone in the group planning to attend the ceremony? When N.W.A reunited at the BET Awards last year, Dre didnt show.I believe everybodys going to be there. As it stands now.Will you be performing? Nah, were not performing. I guess we really didnt feel like we were supported enough to do the best show we could put on.By the organizers?Pretty much, yeah. We wanted to do it on a whole other level, and that just couldnt happen. But were totally honored, humbled and appreciative to the Hall for even just considering us, inducting us and inviting us.Will you have any words in your speech for N.W.As former manager, Jerry Heller, who played an important role at the beginning but is now suing for defamation over the film?
No. I dont have anything to say to Jerry. Hes never owned up to his participation in the destruction of the Worlds Most Dangerous Group. So he doesnt deserve to be mentioned. [Ice Cube left N.W.A in 1989 because of royalty disputes.] The music that we put together, he had little or nothing to do with. We would never listen to his ideas.Do any of the fellow inductees mean anything to you personally?These are names Ive heard my whole life. Ive probably heard their music at some point, growing up. Im kind of interested to know what their major hits are. Ive been in hip-hop, R&B;, soul and funk for so long, so its always cool to know why people love these groups. I dont know what they sing, like they probably dont know what I do. Its a night of discovery.What would Eazy have said if you told him in the 80s that you guys would eventually be in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame?He would say, Youre [expletive] right.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page C2 of the New York edition with the headline: Outta Compton,
New Rock Hall of Fame Class Confronts a Familiar Identity Crisis
After His Induction, Steve Miller Rips Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Selects N.W.A and Cheap Trick for Class of 2016
New Rock Hall of Fame Class Confronts a Familiar Identity Crisis
After His Induction, Steve Miller Rips Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Selects N.W.A and Cheap Trick for Class of 2016
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
