On Orbitz, Mac Users Steered to Pricier Hotels - WSJ
Roots of Apple-FBI Standoff Reach Back to 2008 Case
Uber Settles With California Regulators for Up to $25 Million
FCC Plan Would Revamp Oversight of Bulk Data Service Provided to Businesses
Demand for H1-B Skilled-Worker Visas Exceeds U.S. Supply
Publishers Seek to Stop Brave Browser Ad-Blocking Tool
Chinas Homegrown Rival to Uber Valued at Over $25 Billion
Amazon Struts Its Fashion Sense, Challenging Traditional Stores
Facebook to Allow Media Companies, Marketers to Post Sponsored Content
Toyota Steps Up University Relations for Autonomous Driving
San Bernardino iPhone Hack Doesnt Work on Newer Models
John Doerrs Move Highlights a Venture-Capital Challenge: Succession
ZTE Plunges as Continuing U.S. Investigation Sparks Uncertainties
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com.
http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052702304458604577488822667325882
Orbitz has found that Apple users spend as much as 30% more a night on hotels, so the online travel site is starting to show them different, and sometimes costlier, options than Windows visitors see. Dana Mattioli has details on The News Hub. Photo: Bloomberg.
Orbitz Worldwide Inc. has found that people who use
's Mac computers spend as much as 30% more a night on hotels, so the online travel agency is starting to show them different, and sometimes costlier, travel options than Windows visitors see. The Orbitz effort, which is in its early stages, demonstrates how tracking people's online activities can use even seemingly innocuous informationin this case, the fact that customers are visiting Orbitz.com from a Macto start predicting their tastes and spending habits.
Apple is practically creating its own demographic, and researchers are trying to define it. Their goal: to see if higher income levels translate into higher spending.
Orbitz executives confirmed that the company is experimenting with showing different hotel offers to Mac and PC visitors, but said the company isn't showing the same room to different users at different prices. They also pointed out that users can opt to rank results by price.
Orbitz found Mac users on average spend $20 to $30 more a night on hotels than their PC counterparts, a significant margin given the site's average nightly hotel booking is around $100, chief scientist
Wai Gen Yee said. Mac users are 40% more likely to book a four- or five-star hotel than PC users, Mr. Yee said, and when Mac and PC users book the same hotel, Mac users tend to stay in more expensive rooms.
"We had the intuition, and we were able to confirm it based on the data," Orbitz Chief Technology Officer
The sort of targeting undertaken by Orbitz is likely to become more commonplace as online retailers scramble to identify new ways in which people's browsing data can be used to boost online sales. Orbitz lost $37 million in 2011 and its stock has fallen by more than 74% since its 2007 IPO. The effort underscores how retailers are becoming bigger users of so-called predictive analytics, crunching reams of data to guess the future shopping habits of customers. The goal is to tailor offerings to people believed to have the highest "lifetime value" to the retailer. Orbitz first confirmed Mac users' preferences in October and began working them into the complicated mix of factors that determine its search results. The effect isn't always obvious. In tests performed by The Wall Street Journal, search results for hotels in cities including Las Vegas, Orlando, Philadelphia and Boston were the same for both Macs and PCs. A New York search turned up more expensive hotels for Mac users, but only after the first 20 listed.
News of Orbitz's Mac-targeting tests lit up the social media sphere as soon as our story published with "Orbitz" trending on Twitter's top 10 list throughout much of Tuesday. Read More.
Other searches showed more significant differences. A Mac search for a hotel in Miami Beach for two nights in July displayed costlier boutique hotels on the first page of results, such as Sagamore, the Art Hotel and the Boulan South Beach, that weren't displayed on the PC's first page. Among hotels appearing in both searches, some pricier options (such as the $212 Eden Roc Renaissance and the $397 Fontainebleau) were listed higher on the Mac. Overall, hotels on the first page of the Mac search were about 11% more expensive than they were on the PC.
Similarly, hotels on the first page of results for Baton Rouge, La., appeared in different order for Mac and PC and were 13% more expensive in aggregate for the Mac search. Rival travel sites
and Travelocity, which is a unit of Sabre Holdings Corp., don't use a person's computer operating system when suggesting hotels, spokesmen said. Apple declined to comment.
Orbitz found Mac users on average spend $20 to $30 more a night on hotels than their PC counterparts.
Top hotels measured by booked-room nights by Mac and non-Mac users in selected cities in May:
Las Vegas -- Excalibur Hotel & Casino New York -- Park Central New York Los Angeles -- Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel Miami -- Hyatt Regency Miami Chicago -- Congress Plaza Hotel
Las Vegas -- Stratosphere New York -- Park Central New York Los Angeles -- The Wilshire Hotel Miami -- Miami Beach Resort Chicago -- The Whitehall Hotel
Neil Sazant, president of Sagamore, reacted with a mix of admiration and concern to the algorithm. "That's incredible, but I wouldn't want to miss out on PC users," he said. Mr. Sazant says about 15% of rooms at the 93-room hotel are booked through a mix of online sites like Orbitz and that appearing on the first page of results is important in those searches. Orbitz's chief executive,
Barney Harford, has made data mining a priority. Shortly after joining the company in 2009, the former Expedia executive opened a small office in Sunnyvale, Calif., and recruited statisticians with backgrounds from
Google Inc. for a new analytics team. Digging into the data, the team found some hotels were far more likely to be booked by Mac users. Nearly half of bookings on Orbitz for the Public Chicagoa high-end Chicago hotel that boasts features such as "lobby socializing"come from Mac visitors, said Mr. Liew of Orbitz.
Erica Spayd, a store designer from Queens, N.Y., uses Orbitz to reserve flights and hotels from time to time using her MacBook Pro. "It's clever," the 31-year-old said of Orbitz's Mac targeting. "As long as there's an option to sort by price I'm fine with it."
Orbitz said the effort to incorporate Mac vs. PC distinctions is still in its formative stages and isn't evident across the site. Other factors have more influence over results, Mr. Liew said, including a user's location and history on the site, as well as a hotel's overall popularity and promotions. Still, he said, use of a Mac can influence results. Apple users already stand out as big spenders. Nearly half of retailers in a recent study by Forrester Research and Shop.org said users of tabletsa large majority of which are iPadstend to place bigger online orders than users of laptops or desktops. Shoppers on Apple devices like iPhones also outspend shoppers using Android or BlackBerry devices, accounting for half of all mobile purchases, according to International Business Machines, which tracks data from retailers.
Fashion site Rue La La pays close attention to iPhone and iPad users, who account for 75% of all of its mobile orders, said CEO
Companies are just starting to look at whether users of Macs, who make up just 9.8% of the U.S. personal -computer market, according to market research firm Gartner, might exhibit similar characteristics.
The average household income for adult owners of Mac computers is $98,560, compared with $74,452 for a PC owner, according to Forrester.
Eventually, Orbitz may start to test if Mac users have identifiable preferences for car rentals and flight bookings. "It would be nice to say they book more Porsches, but at this point we're only looking at hotels," Mr. Yee said.
Some of the Criteria Orbitz Uses: Hotel Discounts, Browsing Activity A computer's operating system is one of several factors Orbitz considers when serving up search results. The top results, for instance, are reserved for hotels that pay Orbitz for high-profile placement.
Deals: When hotels offer discounts, those properties move higher in the search results for all visitors.
Referring site: Orbitz makes assumptions about users' spending habits based on how they arrive at the site. If a shopper enters Orbitz through Kayak.com, which aggregates offers from travel sites, it might indicate a user is more sensitive about price than a visitor coming from review-focused TripAdvisor, who may be more interested in hotel ratings.
Return visits: Booking history as well as other previous activity on the site also come into play. Using purchase history from logged-in visitors, the site knows if a user has repeatedly looked at certain hotel chains and may display those properties higher in the results.
Location: Orbitz considers where a shopper is booking from. Using past purchase data, Orbitz looks at the types of hotels New Yorkers tend to book when visiting Miami, for example, and takes those properties into account.
Such information is actually useless for big businesses like expensive hotels, for instance. The community of PC users is huge, easily overwhelming the need to consider mac users as potential costumers (they must be considered, but disregarding their existence won't do that much harm). The number of people who own high-end PCs for gaming (just an example) is higher than MAC users one, and those computers are much more expensive than your average MAC-whatever. In a nutshell, most MAC users tend to book pricier hotels, but PC users certainly do it much, much more. A silly debate, when it comes to pure statistics.
I'm actually impressed and applaud Orbitz. A good cost accountant can allocate the costs associated with running a sales site that integrates with windows systems versus the costs associated with running the site for a mac platform. It may very well be that Orbitz must recover a higher allocated cost when it comes to providing a working web platform for Mac users. I like that they didn't "socialize" the costs and aren't making Windows users subsidize the more expensive cost of catering to mac users.
I'd charge more too. It takes me more time to make sure my company's website works on a crApple device. That's extra time and money I have to spend so that liberal fanbois can stay loyal to your crApple Wackbooks and iFads. It's irony since crApple exports the manufacturing jobs out of America to places like FoxConn and then imports the products back and sells them to you at a premium. The very same liberal frauds who accuse "greedy 1% Republicans" of exporting jobs. Look in the mirror you hypocrites. Liberals charge more for tobacco users so I say charge them more for mac users.
Hey troll. Well, someone has to come up with horrible logic to this discussion, apart from the forgotten fact that there is much more rich people using Windows than whatever. Most liberals use Windows or Linux, my 'friend'. And most Linux users use PCs. Almost all mac users I know are republicans or just right-wing oriented. What you say is completely wrong.
Have a sense of humor Zah Fah. Liberals are so obsessed with crApple it took Liberal Hollywood no time to capitalize off Steve Jobs' death and make a terrible movie with that liberal wimp boy ashton kootcher. The only reason you're even upset is because you know there's a ring of truth to what I'm saying. The truth hurts. Now take a break and go see the new liberal Hollywood movie about what a sweetheart the commie terrorist Nelson Mandela was. The liberal fanboism for Nelson Mandela ranks up there with the divinity they've annointed Steve Jobs with.
Hotwire users in the past have reported receiving different prices using different computers and/or browsers. I recently experienced two different prices for a hotel - one price on a PC, a different price on a Mac. Surprisingly the price offered to the Mac user was cheaper by about 8%. Not sure how this would be consistent with their low price guarantee if one user is being charged less than another.
I will not longer use Orbitz travel services.There are plenty of other better travel services.Charging Apple users (Or any users) more is BSGOODBYE Orbitz !!!!
"Mac Users Steered to Pricier Hotels" - serves them right!
I use a Mac because it is intuitive, it is consistent and I can figure out how to do much more than my PC using friends and relatives, including one who used P C's at work for years and still can't figure out how to scan and e-mail something to me. I am not interested in being a slave to technology, I want a computer to work for me. Also, I am a value buyer. My last PC got a virus, cost me a fortune to repair and then died. My Mac just works. If that makes me bad because I am not a geek, so be it. I bought Mac because of value. I am not about to stay at high priced hotels for the reason that it is stupid and a waste of money. I think their thinking re Mac users may have some serious flaws.
If anybody needed PROOF that companies are using our PERSONAL info AGAINST us, THIS is it! NOT to "enter a contest", NOT to make your online "experience" BETTER, no, TO FREAKING CHARGE YOU MORE MONEY BASED ON YOUR INCOME! No doubt, THIS and most other scams like it, championed by ONE particular GROUP...if you KNOW what I mean! Hint: THEY LOVE MONEY!
You can avoid it!Even as a mac user you can avoid higer prices by using a hotel meta search engine.An example is http://crispy-hotels.comThis way the metasearch engine is the requesting agent and the site of the hotel provider does not know that a mac user is behind...
just as Karen implied I'm surprised that a mom able to earn $8068 in 1 month on the internet. did you see this site(Click on menu Home more information) http://goo.gl/jmZ5p
like Wayne responded I am impressed that any body able to get paid $4571 in four weeks on the computer. did you see this page(Click on menu Home more information) http://goo.gl/1j9PA
This is one of many examples where alleged studies of consumer behavior violate people's basic rights and civil liberties.
Generally speaking don't people go to sites like ortbiz to get cheaper(est) fares, hotels, etc.? Using my information to set me up with higher priced locations seems slightly counterintuitive
I think they go to sites like Orbitz to get the cheapest price on THE TYPE of hotel that they prefer. So it still helps out Mac users who are looking for luxury hotels because it sifts through to find the best-priced luxury hotel.
like Earl implied I am surprised that a student able to get paid $6454 in 4 weeks on the internet. did you look at this site link(Click on menu Home more information) http://goo.gl/3YlnC
@JaniceAh, really, troll? I've had more issues with this on Macs.
Mac users can't figure out how to turn on normal PCs anymore (their brain atrophies if they use a Mac/IPad for more than six months). So Mac users have no choice but pay the higher price! Soon the world will be divided into two parts, the Mac-Heads (with their smaller atrophied brains) and the PC-Heads, who, thanks to the exercise they go through everyday, have razor-sharp brains. This is really great news. Want your kids to become smarter? Force them to use a PC! An old one, like Windows 3.1. Or just plain Linux! They will kick the butts of the weaker IPad/Mac users in school. :)
Don't bother replying to her - she's some kind of odd troll. That being said, whether your computer gets malware or not really has nothing to do with the brand of the PC and more to do with user intelligence.
It would seem the cool-aid you've been drinking is a little to strong and missed everything to do with apple in the last 6 months alone that's been on every major news media. The most recent news is Apple changed their website and removed the statement "Mac's don't get PC viruses". I guess with 500,000 Mac's still infected with flashback months after a fix was available should tell me apple users are smarter right? Your kids aren't smarter for using a mac, their more oblivious to what's really going on. I laughed at this article because it is true in every sense. Look at it this way. You have a newer Mac. It has a INTEL core i5 blah, blah, blah.. Go look at a newer windows pc and what do you see? What is the price difference? I hope you understand at some point in your cool-aid, juice filled world the only real difference between a PC and a Mac now is the software. If you're willing to pay more for the same thing that's cheaper elsewhere then you are more willing to pay for more expensive hotels. The same principal applies in almost every business.
Let me list the brands of PCs I've had over the years, none which have had a virus:Sperry in the 80sCouple of brands put together by our tech guys- don't know the nameTatung in the early 90sIBMDellHPUsed MS-DOS, PC-DOS, OS2, Windows 3.2, Windows 98, Windows Vista, and Windows 7 operating systems.Users that get viruses are not educated in computer usage. They usually open attachments or get them from some dubious website, usually porn sites. We always considered all brands when purchasing PCs, but Apple's price was so far out of line that it was always last on the list. Most people use computers for specific tasks, not everything under the sun. It's wonderful that computers are programmed to surf the net, do accounting, banking, talk to you, post pictures, TRACK YOUR EVERY MOVE and sell that information, search maps, you name it they do it, but do you really need all those things. I don't. Computers allow people to make bigger and faster mistakes than they could ever do manually.
Sure! And when the big bad Worldwide Virus hits and lames all PCs (not if, when), hey, then there will simply be more bandwidth available for us dodo Mac users. Funny, if Apple is the most valued company in the world, I guess all those people must be dodos according to you? My kids are smarter because they use Macs. I really wouldnt want to give them a lobotomy by sitting them down in front of a PC. LOL
Based on the Mac users I know, I'd guess the real reason Mac users accept pricier offers from Orbitz it their gullible belief that whatever comes out of that magic box is always the right and best offer.
I'm not surprised by this. Apple customers have been paying higher prices for products with fewer features than their PC/Android peers for years now. Orbitz just correctly recognized this irrational behavior and capitalized on it.
Hey that is so untrue I wouldnt even waste my keyboard time to respond to it..
So Thomas is saying that ease of use in a computer is not a benefit, and difficulty of use is a value? Maybe what he's really saying is that he actually thinks Mac's are hard to use. I think Macs and PCs are interchangeable in terms of use like writing using Word, getting on the Internet, and so on. Commands are slightly different, but as far as laptops go, the user friendliness of each is fairly similar. PC's however, have a greater tendency to fall victim to viruses, because they are more common than Macs, and they tend to freeze and crash more often. Macs are more reliable. They are also better if you use any kind of music program, like Finale, or graphics programs. PCs simply cannot match Macs in these area. They just can't. I PCs don't function well with most complex iconographic systems that also involve sound or moving images, and I don't see that as a benefit for someone who's trying to get work done in these areas.
My work gave me a Mac because we develop both iPhone and Android applications. I would take my Dell laptop anyday over the Mac, and I would take an Android phone any day over an iPhone. Macs are over priced and designed for people who don't know how to use computers.
It's not enough to prefer one product over another. One also has to trash the other product and people who prefer it. Such a silly boy.
Because, by definition, Mac users are ignorant and gullible consumers.
As opposed to PC users, who are merely ignorant and judgmental human beings?
Oh, thanks for reminding me! Mac users are ironically smug and arrogant while being ignorant and gullible.
The overreactions on here are just ridiculous. People (I'm guessing mostly Mac users) are acting like this is the first instance of anything like this happening ever. It's called MARKETING people. You look at the target demographic and learn about them in order to offer appropriate choices. Mac users already paid a higher price to obtain their computer of choice. It is fair to assume that they may want to pay a higher price to obtain the hotel room they like as well. And it's not like the lower price options are removed; all you have to do is order the search by price. It's the same as looking at a 21-year-old college kid vs. a tenured businessman. I'm sure several other online travel agencies do similar things, so switching to Expedia or Priceline isn't going to change anything.As for the Mac vs. PC argument, I always see someone incorrect things, and so feel compelled to right those mistakes. You can't compare a $1000 Mac to a $400 HP and say that PCs suck. That's like comparing a BMW to a Toyota. Not the same class. The OS of the computer is a personal preference, but I have seen several stories of similarly priced PCs outperforming Macs. I have never had a PC crash on me nor a Mac. Never have had a virus on either one (Yes, Macs can get viruses). It's all about being smart on the Internet and having proper antivirus software. Also, Macs are PCs. Apple has just done a great job of convincing us otherwise.
It just follows the correct assumption that people who overpay for computers ( Apple products ) will overpay for hotel rooms, cars, clothes, or any other price negotiable item. Remember Apple's old slogan, THINK DIFFERENT. Their customers did. Those dedicated Mac users throughout Apple's dark years could be equated to religious zealots who willingly donated their money to keep the faith.
I don't understand why people are upset that Orbitz is defaulting to a display showing them what it thinks they would like at the top.When you list hotels, there are four choices for the order of presentation: Best Value, Price, Distance, and Review Ratings. If you want to see the lowest prices first, one click on Price and you're done.If Orbitz was offering the same rooms at different prices that would be a cause for outrage, but they're just doing what vendors have always done: sizing up the customer and offering something attractive.
I'm shocked that you read the article and comprehended what is said? On this comment board it makes you nearly a god.
Thanks, Allan. This article is something of a perfect storm for silly comments, as it offers a) the chance for people with poor reading comprehension skills to feel that they are being conspired against, and b) the chance to produce that perfect devastating bit of trash talk that will once and for all show everyone how superior their chosen computing platform is, thus conclusively ending the 15-year-long argument.
The phrase "... more money than brains..." comes to mind.
$igning up for Priceline Publisher Ads on C.J. now!
This is just one example of using data to determine price. Online advertisers use demographic data to determine what to send to which consumer. We are all targeted in this way, not only Apple users. It is good to know who to avoid as a supplier and Orbitz is now definitely on that list.
Your conclusion is wrong, but you are right about people overreacting to this. Amazon likely has much more useful data about everyone on this thread than any travel site because we use it more. Yet, the same people who scream the sky is falling about this article probably appreciate recommendations from Amazon and even help out by rating products they've bought.
If you think Orbitz is the only site doing this then you poorly mistaken. Any company of a decent size is going to use predictive analytics to maximize its business. Some view it as maximizing revenue but I would argue that they aren't maximizing revenue so much as they are maximizing the fit between the search results and the users preference.Mac users apparently tend to spend more because they prefer not to stay in the cheaper economy hotels. Orbitz is recognizing this and returning search results that initially don't highlight these cheap hotels. They are still available and are the same price as a PC user would see, they just don't default to the first few hotels shown in the search.
As a Mac user, I am actually appalled that just owning a Mac will result in me being offered more expensive choices - when I for one clearly do not want them. Thank you for the head's up. I will make sure to avoid using Orbitz for all my future travel planning.
some people have to pay for their own room, not use their government credit card
No room overlooking the water for you then Kathy . . . .
THINK! All Orbitz is doing is using data to predict what hotels will interest you based on a variety of factors, including arriving at the site on a Mac, the city you're in, the city you will be visiting, time of the year, numbers of days, etc. That is not offensive. If you are going to be offended the numerous data miners gathering data from your social networks that leads to your real identity should concern you, not this. My patience with knee-jerk responses wore out earlier today as I watched people misinterpret the Supreme Court's decision on Arizona's immigration laws.
San Bernardino iPhone Hack Doesnt Work on Newer Models
Coconuts Go Upscale, Boosting Price of Conventional Coconut Oil
Copyright 2016 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.
