Confirmed: Google's Siri-Esque Personal Assistant Is Creepy
Confirmed: Google's Siri-Esque Personal Assistant Is Creepy
Google's all-knowing Siri-esque personal assistant has confirmed some suspicions, veering from cool feature into creepy stalker territory. When Google announced Google Now -- a service that "gets you just the right information at just the right time," as Google explains it -- some, like Bits Blog's Jenna Wortham suggested the all-knowingness might come off as creepy, even if it's useful. From the looks of the service, which we get fromBusiness Insider's Steve Kovach, it does indeed sound like the service keeps a very close eye on us, begging the question: How much do we want our computers to know about us?
Not as much as Google Now, at least from Kovach's experience. Having the latest Android software, Kovach has gotten his hands on the product. And, like a creepy bot, it already knows lots and lots about him, monitoring everything he does online to guess what he'll need before he knows it. Some examples:
It knows his favorite sports teams: I'm a Mets fan (unfortunately), so a lot of my sports-related Google searches are for the score of the latest game. Google knows this, so Google Now automatically sends me notifications with the latest score. I don't even have to ask anymore.
It knows his friends, which is creepy not just for Kovach. The other night I was getting dinner with a few old journalism friends from college. We were talking about Jim Romenesko, and one of my friends wondered how old he was. I asked Google Now, "How old is Jim Romenesko?" The answer came up in less than a second.
Though Kovach doesn't find any of this an overreach, calling the service "better than Siri at pulling up relevant information," it sounds a little too all-knowing to us and, we image, for Wortham. "It gets weird when Google starts to extend its reach into that territory, because Google already knows so much about us  things like who we e-mail and talk to the most, along with what we search for," writes Wortham. "When those smaller bits of data begin to get linked together in a more meaningful way, that knowledge can take on a larger, different context," she continues.
In the digital personal assistant world, it's not human-like qualities -- a.k.a the uncanny valley -- that makes these programs creepy, but rather the kind of information they have. That Google Now knows about us in a more than Google-search-able way makes the service feel like an intrusion. To be sure, Siri knows things, too. And it even talks (and jokes) like a human. But, Siri does not take note of our habits, like some weird stalker friend. We don't have an aversion to the Apple version because it still has a robot brain. Google Now, on the other hand, not only has a human brain, it has a nosy omniscient one. That, we find creepy. And, considering all the privacy issues Google has gotten into of late, we doubt we're alone here.
At least two people are dead, the Bexar County Sheriff said.
Are Shell Companies Useful for People Who Arent Ludicrously Rich?
At least two people are dead, the Bexar County Sheriff said.
The wildly popular show came of age as the Internet was helping to break down the divide between commentators and fans.
Interviews with the people who tell pollsters they are backing the outspoken billionaire
Thirteen of them, who worked in an unnamed third country, are now in South Korea.
Panama Papers: Questions for the Argentine President
Mauricio Macri will appear before a federal judge in connection with his links to an offshore account.
The FX series wasnt a traditional whodunnitbut thats precisely why it resonated with viewers so much.
The British leader has acknowledged he had a stake in his fathers offshore trustbut says he sold it in 2010 before he became prime minister.
The teaser trailer for the first Star Wars anthology film promises a nostalgic thrill-ride.
The Melissa McCarthy vehicle is the latest comedy to fall victim to the pitfall of the pratfall.
State TV and AFP, the French news agency, both reported the abductions of at least 250 people after militants attacked a cement factory in Dumeir, outside Damascus.
Why Bernie Sanders Says Clinton Isn't 'Qualified' to Be President
The Vermont senators escalation is more semantic than substantivehes been critiquing her decisions on the Iraq war, campaign finance, and free trade for months.
Federal authorities also released the route the unidentified man took after the attack on Zaventem airport on March 22.
The Russian president denies there was any element of corruption" in details contained in the documents from Mossack Fonseca.
A New York judges dismissal of rape allegations cites statutes of limitations and other issues unrelated to Dr. Lukes guilt or innocence.
Nazimuddin Samad is the latest advocate of secularism to be killed in the South Asian country.
The Vermont senator erases his rivals national lead in a new PRRI / The Atlantic poll, even as he struggles to close the delegate gap.
The Fox talent show, ending with its series finale tonight, offered rare glimpses of humanity in primetime entertainment.
The performer died on Wednesday, his 79th birthday.
The European Commission has proposed either modifying an existing rule on distributing asylum-seekers or scrapping it altogether.
The U.S. Department of Justice filed a civil antitrust lawsuit to stop the deal between two of the worlds largest oilfield-services companies.
Mossack Fonseca kept its clients largely on the right side of the law. Indeed, thats entirely the point.
Shows like Hulus The Path are part of an ongoing paradigm shift in television that favors the season over the episode.
The Panama Papers show how the U.S. state has become a favored destination rivaling the Cayman Islands and Switzerland.
After 10 episodes, four Atlantic writers consider how the series illuminated history.
Its Off: The End of Pfizers $160 Billion Allergan Merger
The news comes days after the U.S. Treasury Department announced rules that targeted such deals.
There's Still Time for a Serious Third-Party Presidential Run
It's not too lateyetfor Trump or an anti-Trump to make a credible independent bid.
After the Panama Papers: How Should Authorities React?
Pushing for greater transparency is an important first step.
The maker of graham crackers has taken it upon itself to define the ideal American family. It is not alone in the effort.
Mossack Fonseca didnt just help its clients avoid taxes, it also hid them from the Treasury Department.
Interactive Bus Posters Let You Conduct an Orchestra With Your Phone
This Bay Area Trail Is Enforcing the Speed Limitfor Bikes
If youve had Netflix for more than two years, youre likely about to pay more for it
A legal battle is brewing over the right to post photos of European public art online
David Camerons offshore dealings were politically embarrassing and awkwardly profitable
Another 150 Hillary Clinton Emails Had Classified Info, State Dept. Says
The Anti-Establishment Candidate Challenging Donald Trump
Marine on tap to lead AFRICOM; Marshall Plan for the Mideast?; Navy christens a ghost ship; How DoD is like Enron; and a bit more.
US Christens First Ghost Ship (and The Dawn of The Robotic Navy)
Copyright 2016 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.
