Video Shows Texas School Officer Body-Slamming 12-Year-Old Girl - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|Video Shows Texas School Officer Body-Slamming 12-Year-Old Girl
Video Shows Texas School Officer Body-Slamming 12-Year-Old Girl
A video image of a San Antonio officers confrontation with a middle school student. He has been put on leave.
The San Antonio school district is investigating an encounter captured on a cellphone video that showed a school police officer slamming a 12-year-old girl face first to the sidewalk.The video, apparently shot by a student and posted online Tuesday by Ghost-O, a local news blog, has ricocheted across social media and has prompted the district to start an inquiry and put the officer, identified as Joshua Kehm, on paid administrative leave.The video is very disturbing and we immediately launched a formal investigation, which is being conducted by both district police and administration, Leslie Price, a spokeswoman for the school district, said in an email.She said later that investigators were interviewing witnesses. We are not going to tolerate any excessive force, she said.The video was sent to school administrators by the districts Police Department on the day it was posted. Raul Valdez III, the father of Janissa Valdez, the student in the video, said she had been bullied in school and thought she was defending herself from another student. She has been suspended for three days.The video, about 30 seconds long, shows Officer Kehm lifting Janissa from behind. At least one student in a group surrounding them can be heard telling the girl to chill. As Janissa struggles, Officer Kehm whirls around and slams her to a brick sidewalk. One student exclaims, Janissa, are you O.K.? The officer pins her hands behind her back as she lies motionless, and he then lifts her to her feet and takes her away.
SAISD Police Officer Body Slams 12-Year-Old Middle School Girl On Concrete Floor Video by Ghost-0
The episode occurred at Rhodes Middle School on March 29. Mr. Valdez said that Janissa, who is in the sixth grade, had been bullied since the beginning of the school year by a group of students and that administrators had done nothing to help, though the family had complained several times.
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox. MondayFriday.
She tried to ignore it, but it kept going on and she decided to defend herself, he said.Ms. Price said she did not have immediate information about any history of bullying.Mr. Valdez said his daughter got jumped by one girl recently and had been suspended. Then, in the episode recorded on video, Mr. Valdez said, Janissa told him that the bullys friend had confronted her and that they were surrounded by other students expecting a fight.
He said that Janissa told him that when the officer grabbed her from behind, she thought it was a student trying to attack her.The girls mother, Gloria Valdez, was in a parking lot waiting to pick her up when she saw the commotion, Mr. Valdez said. The officer told Janissas mother that he did what he had to do because he said my daughter was trying to kick him in the groin area, he added. He told my wife, You know I can press charges on your daughter.An officer who answered the telephone at the school district Police Department referred calls to Ms. Price, who said she was unable to provide further details about the investigation. She said she did not know if Officer Kehm, who hasbeen with the district since February 2015, has a record of disciplinary issues. Officer Kehm did not immediately reply to a message seeking comment.Janissa was taken to a hospital for X-rays, but she was not admitted for treatment, Mr. Valdez said, adding that she was bruised and was having severe headaches.We are afraid to take her back to school, Mr. Valdez said. We overheard that students are saying they want to beat her up for this. The family has been unable to enroll her elsewhere, he said.The episode is the latest to draw attention to a debate over the proliferation and proper role of the police in schools, especially as disciplinary cases are increasingly recorded on students cellphones.In October, a video showed a South Carolina deputy sheriff assigned to a high school grabbing a 16-year-old student, tipping her backward in her seat, slamming her to the floor and dragging her to the front of the class. The student had defied a teachers instruction to stop using her phone and had refused orders to leave the classroom, officials said.And in March, two school police officers in Baltimore were charged in connection with a video that showed one slapping and kicking a teenage student while the other officer looked on.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: 12-Year-Old Slammed by Officer, Video Shows.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
