UK's News of the World closes after phone hacking scandal | Network World
SSD shootout: PCI Express blows away SATA and M.2 in throughput testing
Report: CIOs neglect BPM in favor of trendier software
UK's News of the World closes after phone hacking scandal
CTIA shares tips for preventing News Corp. (or anyone else) from hacking your...
What are the top three things that have influenced /changed the security...
The newspaper is accused of hacking into the mobile voice mail of celebrities and crime victims
The U.K.'s News of the World is closing admit allegations of staff members hacking into the mobile voice mail of celebrities and crime victims.News Corp. will close its weekly U.K. newspaper News of the World amid allegations that the tabloid hacked into the mobile voicemail accounts of celebrities, the British royal family, and crime victims.Sunday's edition of the 168-year-old News of the World will be the last, said James Murdoch, chairman and CEO of News Corp.'s Europe and Asia divisions and son of News Corp. owner Rupert Murdoch.INSIDER: Traditional anti-virus is dead: Long live the new and improved AV"The good things the News of the World does ... have been sullied by behaviour that was wrong," James Murdoch wrote in a announcement posted on the publication's website. "The News of the World is in the business of holding others to account. But it failed when it came to itself." Officials at the newspaper first believed that the voice mail hacking activities, first discovered in 2006, were confined to one reporter, Murdoch wrote."We now have voluntarily given evidence to the police that I believe will prove that this was untrue and those who acted wrongly will have to face the consequences," Murdoch added.There are two ongoing police investigations into the voice mail hacking allegations, Murdoch said.The newspaper closure comes as companies come under increased scrutiny in the U.S. and Europe for alleged tech-related privacy violations. Starting in 2010, Google faced investigations for Wi-Fi snooping by its Street View cars, and in recent months, privacy groups have raised concerns about how much geo-location data is collected smartphones running Google and Apple operating systems. Privacy groups have also complained about the amount of personal data that websites and advertising networks are collecting.Grant Gross covers technology and telecom policy in the U.S. government for The IDG News Service. Follow Grant on Twitter at GrantGross. Grant's e-mail address is grant_gross@idg.com.
Must read: 11 hidden tips and tweaks for Windows 10
Be the first to comment on this article. Our Commenting Policies
Tesla's recently unveiled Model 3 is already a hit.
Frontier Communications continues to take a beating from Verizon castoffs
Newsletters Sign up and receive the latest news, reviews and trends on your favorite technology topics. Get our Daily News newsletter
Hewlett Packard Enterprise just released its new logo, and it's really boring
Microsoft Surface Pro 4 review: It's faster, it's better, and it has more
Microsoft re-engineers the Surface Pro 4 tablet for performance, adding a new Intel Skylake processor,...
Aberdeen Report: No Content Left Behind - When To Extend File Sync / Share With ECM
A How-to Guide to 360 Multi-Layer Application Security
A New Way To Work : Collaborate on Cloud, Web and Mobile in ways you've never seen before
Microsoft ships first Windows 10 upgrade to corporate PCs
Microsoft is promoting Windows 10's November 2015 upgrade to the Current Branch for Business release...
Every time you access your phone via fingerprint reader, youre using biometric identification...
Support for SQL Server 2005 ends Tuesday - are you ready?
There will be no more updates from Microsoft, so staying with the software could open you up to a host...
SSD shootout: PCI Express blows away SATA and M.2 in throughput testing
For the better part of a decade now, the traditional interface for hard drives has been Serial ATA...
Copyright  1994 - 2016 Network World, Inc. All rights reserved.
This ad will close in 20 seconds. Continue to site 
