On April 10, 1990, Lotus Development Corporation proudly announced its
plans to release the Lotus MarketPlace: Households.
trade press, MarketPlace was expected to revolutionize the list
industry by making names, addresses, demographic and prior purchase
The product was a joint venture between Equifax, one of the country's
largest credit bureaus, and Lotus, a major player in the computer
Marketing Database while Lotus developed the software for the Macintosh
desktop computer. A second version of MarketPlace for the IBM PC was on
the drawing board. On January 23, 1991, Equifax and Lotus issued a
joint press release stating that they were canceling the project.
statement indicated that the decision resulted from consumer concerns
and "the substantial, unexpected additional costs required to fully
lessons of the Lotus MarketPlace can provide some important insights
for everyone who is concerned about consumer privacy issues in the
Two features of the Lotus MarketPlace were responsible for mobilizing
the opposition which led to its cancellation: the contents of the
database and the desktop technology platform. First and foremost,
consumers objected to the secondary use of identifiable personal
the Privacy Times, Equifax initially took the position that it had no
plans to notify consumers that personal data from their credit reports
would be used in a new direct marketing product, MarketPlace (1).
result, a fundamental privacy principle, that personal information
collected for one purpose should not be used for other purposes without
cornerstone of the 1973 "Code of Fair Information Practices" which
Second, as a distributed desktop application, MarketPlace lacked many
of the controls currently in place for a centralized database stored on
a mainframe computer and managed by a mailing list broker.
brokers screen requests to rent their lists and often request a sample
list with decoy names prior to its release in order to monitor how the
Similar controls were not feasible for MarketPlace because the end-
user actually owned the database and therefore controlled its use.
example, the end-user could build lists using any combination of the
to export names and addresses from the lists they built to a separate
file for unrestricted future use.It was therefore unlikely that
MarketPlace use could be reliably monitored using decoy names.
advocates viewed the upcoming release of MarketPlace as opening the
They expressed concern that each new lookalike product
would of necessity provide access to more detailed personal information
than the last in order to compete successfully with MarketPlace for
Against this backdrop, what lessons can we learn from the Lotus
In retrospect, I believe that at least three distinct
perspectives, the perspectives of the consumer, the corporation, and
the "electronic lobbyist," are necessary to understand what happened
these three perspectives, the paper will develop some conclusions
regarding the need for a new partnership between consumers and
companies which balances their respective interests.
The Consumer Perspective: "How Did They Get My Name?"
One important lesson from the Lotus MarketPlace is that consumers
clearly want to control who has the right to access their personal
personal data clearly surprised and shocked most consumers when they
learned about MarketPlace, resulting in a storm of complaints.
given the opportunity to have their names removed from the database,
more than 30,000 individuals exercised the option to "opt out."
strength and the tenor of the opposition clearly caught both Lotus and
In its public statements, Lotus continued to argue that the MarketPlace
was only providing small businesses with a means to access the same
information that was already available to larger firms. In fact, lists
based on personal data have been widely available for sometime.
Target Marketing Services, Polk and its subsidiary National
Demographics and Lifestyles (NDL), Acxiom Integrated Marketing Systems
or any of a host of other companies in the list industry could each
have replaced Equifax as the data supplier for MarketPlace.
The results of The Equifax Report on Consumers in the Information Age,
a national opinion survey released in early summer 1990, include the
finding that the majority of consumers do not object to their names
being used on mailing lists if those that oppose this practice could
have their names excluded. Preference services which allow consumers to
have their names removed from various lists are currently offered by
the Direct Marketing Association, Equifax, American Express, the
majority of large mail-order catalog firms and others.
availability of these services is not common knowledge, and their
effectiveness has never been put to a systematic test.
found that people, in fact, believe it is difficult for individuals to
further found that the majority of consumers (and direct marketing
professionals) believe that individuals have lost all control over how
personal information about them is circulated and used by companies.
The second lesson of the Lotus MarketPlace, then, is that consumers do
not understand the scope of the mailing list business in the United
States, the extent to which personal information is currently
collected, merged, sold or exchanged, and the mechanisms that exist for
published recently in the RISKS computer conference reinforces this
point and is an important message to everyone in the list industry:
"I would venture to say that the uproar is due to the fact that people
heard about the Lotus product, whereas they didn't hear about the
others. I would be interested to hear about other ways of getting the
same information; if we object to Lotus putting together the product,
then we should object to other companies doing the same."
Lobbying in the Information Age: "It's a Brand New Ballgame"
Both conventional wisdom (and a substantial body of academic research)
suggest that successful public opinion campaigns involve issues which
are clearly framed, and are either coupled with a champion or a
powerful interest group, or driven by major external events.
Traditionally, these lobbying campaigns have been conducted by mail or
The targeted organizations develop a response based on
their ability to identify the group(s) behind the mail and their
subsequent assessment of the clout of these groups. Consumer opposition
to the Lotus MarketPlace largely defied this conventional wisdom on
interesting lesson of the Lotus MarketPlace is that we have entered the
Much of the opposition to MarketPlace was mobilized, individual by
individual, on "the net"--public computer networks, bulletin boards and
The public became widely aware of the existence of the
Lotus MarketPlace after the Wall Street Journal published John Wilke's
internal computer conferences at two large firms in the computer
industry as a routine news clip. At least one such posting was then
firm, the same article was circulated with comments appended urging
people to write their members of Congress recommending that steps be
For the next two months, individuals continued to circulate these
comments, appending their own thoughts, and urging anyone receiving the
benefitted from the wide name recognition of Lotus in the computer
community and the fact that Lotus executives were accessible through
the public networks--Equifax received a fraction of the complaints that
effectively mobilize a national constituency independent of any of the
traditional "big money" special interest groups should not be
In his introduction to the Equifax survey, Alan Westin articulates his
belief that a proper information agreement does not currently exist
individual's name, address and personal characteristics in a computer
database without the individual's knowledge or consent, the individual
perceives that a portion of his/her uniqueness has been appropriated.
A marketing colleague suggests that this perception is comparable to
learning that you are being secretly filmed in the shower.
Westin calls for a new partnership between list compilers and record
subjects. The lessons of the Lotus MarketPlace provide support for his
One clear lesson of the Lotus MarketPlace is that individuals who speak
out can effect change. Consumers need to continue to voice their
concerns about practices they find objectionable and to vote with their
wallets. Patronizing firms which have good privacy practices and
challenge requests for personal information which they believe are
inappropriate or unnecessary, or ask specific questions about a firm's
recordkeeping practices, they also send a clear message that they want
The Direct Marketing Association (DMA) works with its members in the
list industry to develop voluntary privacy protection programs.
addition to its mail and telephone preference services, the DMA has
developed a set of voluntary guidelines for Personal Information
Protection which are consistent with the Code of Fair Information
Consumers should exercise their rights as records subjects
under these programs and guidelines, and should report any exceptions
For organizations which sell or use lists, another lesson of the Lotus
MarketPlace is that responsible firms need to do a better job of
educating the public. All organizations should inform their data
subjects about their recordkeeping practices, provide individuals with
a range of options about the subsequent use of personal information,
and finally allow each individual to make an informed choice based on
educating the public about the use of new technologies poses a
Increased public concern about privacy provides an opportunity for
firms to gain competitive advantage from their privacy policies.
privacy is primarily an ethical issue. Socially responsible
organizations do not manufacture defective or dangerous products, cheat
their customers, or pollute the environment. Consumer privacy should be
no more than 25% of executives in privacy-intensive industries want to
be a pioneer in adopting company policies that provide new privacy
Even many public interest organizations which lobby
vigorously for human and civil rights are reluctant to openly disclose
their list practices to their supporters for fear of jeopardizing the
revenues they receive from selling or exchanging their mailing lists.
National Demographics and Lifestyles recently analyzed the demographics
of two groups of consumers who returned product warranty cards.
group had chosen to "opt out"of the NDL database while the other had
not exercised this option. Unlike many organizations, NDL offers
consumers the opportunity to "opt out" through a check-off on the
who chose to "opt out" did not fit the NDL profile of consumers who are
financial benefits of current practices where the "opt out" notice is
buried in the small print (or not given at all) accrue to the firms
which make money from the rental of these non-responsive names to other
Rising postal costs may also strike an unintended blow
for privacy by finally making it cheaper to remove a name from a list
than to mail to prospects who have no interest in the products or
Finally, we learned from the Lotus MarketPlace that market forces can
work. The product was withdrawn without litigation, legislation or even
the United States is characterized by a sectoral approach.
majority of private sector records are not covered by legislation. When
laws are enacted, it is usually in response to a specific problem. It
is not clear to what extent new privacy legislation will serve the
public interest if companies are not committed to privacy as a matter
of principle. For example, while the sale of mailing lists based on
summarized data from individual credit reports by TRW and Equifax does
not violate the letter of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, it clearly
categorize movie rentals based on a large number of very specific
categories and to sell lists based on these categories clearly violated
the intent of the Video Privacy Protection Act of 1988 and was even
described by DM News, an industry publication, as "skirting" the law.
According to Direct Marketing magazine, the mailing list business in
the United States is a $1.23 billion industry. Secondary markets for
personal information continue to expand, as detailed knowledge about
consumer preferences is increasingly valuable to decision makers in the
systems, relational databases, artificial intelligence, automatic
number identification (ANI) and other technologies will continue to
result in enhanced capabilities for surveillance, storage, retrieval,
analysis and communication of personal information.
corporations and privacy advocates will need to communicate openly with
one another to ensure that these new applications fairly balance the
lesson of the Lotus MarketPlace is our newly-found optimism that the
end of the Lotus MarketPlace marks the beginning of such a dialogue.
(1) It should be noted that Equifax had been selling mailing lists
based, in part, on individual credit records prior to its involvement
in the MarketPlace project. [ed. This is no longer the case. Equifax
announced on 8 August 1991 that it would stop using credit data for
(2) Director, Ethics & Consumer Affairs, Direct Marketing Association,
1101 Seventeenth Street NW, Suite 900, Washington, D.C. 20036- 4704.
Copyright, 1991, Jim Warren & Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility
All rights to copy the materials contained herein are reserved, except as
hereafter explicitly licensed and permitted for anyone:
Anyone may receive, store and distribute copies of this ASCII-format
computer textfile in purely magnetic or electronic form, including on
computer networks, computer bulletin board systems, computer conferencing
systems, free computer diskettes, and host and personal computers, provided
this file, including this notice, is not altered in any manner, and
no profit or payment of any kind is charged for its distribution, other
than normal online connect-time fees or the cost of the magnetic media, and
it is not reproduced nor distributed in printed or paper form, nor on
CD ROM, nor in any form other than the electronic forms described above
without prior written permission from the copyright holder.
> Elections Project> Public Sphere Project> Liberating Voices! Pattern Language Project
In these times, this is the kind of organization that technology professionals should be a part of.
