Philips Creates Shopping Assistant with LEDs and Smart Phone - IEEE Spectrum
Philips Creates Shopping Assistant with LEDs and Smart Phone
If you're like me, fumbling around the supermarket looking for obscure items is a pretty commonand frustratingoccurrence. Lighting giant Philips has developed a solution: smart lights.
The company yesterday introduced a system that connects in-store LED lights with consumers' smart phones. Using a downloadable app, people will be able to locate items on their shopping lists or get coupons as they pass products on the aisles. Retailers can send targeted information such as recipes and coupons to consumers based on their precise location within stores, while gaining benefits of energy-efficient LED lighting, says Philips.
The beauty of the system is that retailers do not have to invest in additional infrastructure to house, power and support location beacons for indoor positioning. The light fixtures themselves can communicate this information by virtue of their presence everywhere in the store," said Philips Lighting's Gerben van der Lugt in a statement.
The company is demonstrating the retail lighting system at the EuroShop retail trade show in Dsseldorf, Germany, this week. Philips is already testing it with an undisclosed number of retailers.
The system uses Visual Light Communications (VLC) to talk with consumers' smartphones. Unlike the wireless protocols Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and Zigbee, which use radio waves to send information, VLC relies on the store lights to transmit data to the camera on a smart phone in fast pulses. The lights blink at frequencies that are undetectable by people, according to LEDs Magazine.
There are already a number of other efforts aimed at adding communications and sensors to LED light fixtures. Last year, researchers at the University of Strathclyde in the U.K. demonstrated LED lights with optical communications, which they call Li-Fi. That setup was able to operate at gigabit-per-second speeds, according to a BBC article.
Startup ByteLight has developed a system similar to Philips retail lighting network. It also uses light pulses to communicate with consumers smart phones in stores. Other companies, such as Silver Spring Networks, in Redwood City, Calif., have developed street lights with sensors and radios that allow city managers to remotely monitor traffic density or air quality.
The New York Times today reported that the airport in Newark, New Jersey, is operating smart lighting systems with cameras that make it easier to monitor the facility. The lights allow personnel to spot long lines, look at license plate numbers, and potentially send alerts about suspicious activity.
But these smart lighting systems, while powerful, are raising concerns about privacy and whether new policies are needed to address this emerging technology. There are some people in the commercial space who say, Oh, big datawell, lets collect everything, keep it around forever, well pay for somebody to think about security later, Justin Brookman from the Center for Democracy and Technology told the Times.
In the case of Philips' retail lighting application, consumers would have to download an app, which indicates their willingness to have their movements tracked. But as lighting and other everyday items such as thermostats and streetlights are equipped with sensors and wireless networking, it raises new questions about what is an acceptable amount of monitoring and data collection.
Businesses have a good economic incentive to network their lighting. By connecting lights with occupancy and daylight sensors to building management systems, they can greatly reduce electricity useand energy costsin commercial or institutional buildings.
Regardless of whether retailers adopt Philips smart lighting system, one thing is clear: the mobile phone in your purse or pocket is just one of a growing number of connected, smart devices in our daily environment.
href="http://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by
IEEE Spectrums general technology blog, featuring news, analysis, and opinions about engineering, consumer electronics, and technology and society, from the editorial staff and freelance contributors.
Sign up for the Tech Alert newsletter and receive ground-breaking technology and science news from IEEE Spectrum every Thursday.
You Can't Stop Robots With Furniture Barricades Anymore
This Georgia Tech robot is smart enough to shove furniture out of the way to get where it wants to go
Cypher: The Deep-Learning Software That Will Help Siri, Alexa, and Cortana Hear You
This startup pivoted from cleaning up calls to helping machines discern speech
Social Medias Dial-Up Ancestor: The Bulletin Board System
The history of the BBS shows that pre-Internet social media was pretty great
Previous record is nudged just slightly, but much higher conversion efficiencies should be achieved soon
What Is a Distributed Denial-of-Service Attack and How Did It Break Twitter?
On Friday, multiple distributed denial-of-service attacks hit a common Domain Name System provider for popular sites including Twitter and Netflix
Replace Legos $190 Intelligent Brick with MITs Scratch and a $40 Raspberry Pi
A low-cost way to program and control Lego machines
Video Friday: Robot Toes, Wolverine Haptic Hand, and More From IROS 2016
Arpa-E's $85 Million Plan to Build a Battery the Size of the Grid
4 Steps to Turn Neural Dust Into a Medical Reality
Tiny ultrasound-powered motes could record and adjust nerve activity
Human beings are great at running because they are stupendous at sweating
Video Microscopy Technique Reveals How Battery-Killing Dendrites Grow
Video of how dendrites grow inside lithium-metal batteries promises a way to limit their growth and extend battery life
New Computer Combines Electronic Circuits with Light Pulses
A specialized computer based partly on light pulses could solve some of the trickiest problems for conventional computers
A new technique called virtual oscillator control lets solar inverters help stabilize the power grid
SRI Demonstrates Abacus, the First New Rotary Transmission Design in 50 Years
Finally a gear system that could replace costly harmonic drives
If Germany Bans Internal Combustion Engines, It'll Change the Game
A recent vote by German heads of state sparks political debate on banning internal combustion engines
New U.S. rules for commercial drones will benefit farmers and the drone industry
Can Stanfords Deep Dive Into Virtual Reality Help Save the Oceans?
Stanford researchers are releasing free VR software for the HTC Vive in hopes that it will change people for the better
We used to go to stores to buy it. Now software is so ubiquitous, we dont even notice it
Computer Vision Leader Fei-Fei Li on Why AI Needs Diversity
At the White House Frontiers Conference, Stanford's Li details three crucial reasons to increase diversity in AI
Terms & Conditions | Privacy & Opting Out of Cookies | Accessibility | Nondiscrimination Policy
 Copyright 2016 IEEE  All rights reserved. Use of this Web site signifies your agreement to the IEEE Terms and Conditions.A not-for-profit organization, IEEE is the world's largest technical professional organization dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity.
