campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Bar1
JUST how well New Jersey would respond to a biological or chemical attack is a matter of life and death.
The short answer is: probably a lot better than it would have a year ago.
The longer answer: a lot better still than the rest of the country, which is almost as vulnerable to a terrorist attack today as it was before Sept. 11, 2001, according to a report by a panel headed by two former senators, Gary Hart and Warren B. Rudman, that stated most emergency workers were ill-equipped to handle biological or chemical attacks.
Last week, it was the task of State Health Commissioner Clifton R. Lacy to demonstrate that the committee's report must have been referring to the other 49 states. He met with public health officials from the state's 21 counties to discuss procedures to follow in an outbreak of smallpox.
The new procedures introduced by Mr. Lacy are part of a much larger plan for helping local, county and state health agencies, as well as hospitals and other health care providers deal with attacks by weapons of mass destruction.
''It really puts New Jersey on the right path,'' said Dr. Stuart Weiss, director of disaster planning for St. Barnabas Health Care System, which has bought 10 decontamination trailers.
Even Stephen E. Flynn of the Council of Foreign Relations, who was the project director for the panel headed by Mr. Hart and Mr. Rudman, said New Jersey's plan -- based on recommendations by a group of 25 health care experts in the state who were assmbled last November by Governor McGreevey -- sounded like ''the kind of thing that the federal government should get behind and other state governments should emulate.''
The document -- ''Terrorism and Public Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan'' -- which was made public Oct. 17 by Governor McGreevey, is being characterized by advocates as a revolutionary tool to unify what had been a fragmented public health effort to the terrorist threat. Although it has won praise from many health professionals, there has been some criticism, including assertions that New Jersey still has a way to go before it is fully prepared.
''I would start by saying that New Jersey is far better prepared today than it was a year ago,'' said Dr. Lacy, who guided the plan to completion and has been discussing it with the state's 115 municipal and county health officers.
''There are probably 25 or more elements of this plan that have already been implemented,'' Dr. Lacy said in a telephone interview. ''And now it's a matter of coordinating it across the entire state so that all our health resources are on the same page.''
Many parts of the three-inch-thick document are classified, like storage and distribution sites for pharmaceuticals like smallpox vaccine. But among crucial elements that are not is a directive for each county, using federal funds, to hire its own epidemiologist, as well as three other health professionals who will coordinate planning, communications and information efforts for prompt detection, identification and response to biological, chemical or radiological incidents.
For now, the Department of Health is hiring its own planner-coordinators who will be deployed to oversee each county's bio-terrorism response plan and make sure they are integrated with local agencies like police and fire departments.
To that end, Governor McGreevey has allocated $12.5 million to implement the plan, which will supplement $27.2 million in federal funds that New Jersey has already received. There are other key elements:
*The state's 85 acute-care hospitals and 15 government agencies will be linked by year's end by an emergency radio system consisting of non-interruptible 800 megahertz two-way radios so that communications will not fail as they did on Sept. 11. The hospitals spent more than $1.5 million and the state more than $225,000 for the radios.
*Experts in infectious diseases are on call 24 hours a day as part of a volunteer rapid response team. One of them was ferried by helicopter late on July 4 from his home in North Jersey to a suspected case of smallpox in South Jersey, which he determined was a rare form of chicken pox -- all in four hours.
*The state, according to Dr. Lacy, has become the first to join with Becton Dickinson, a medical technology company in Franklin Lakes, to test a system that uses a tablet-sized computer pad to register and track smallpox vaccinations.
*The capability and security of the state's laboratories, which were overextended in the anthrax crisis, have been expanded.
*A health department operations center, equipped with a state-of-the-art communications system, is nearing completion at an undisclosed location.
*A Web-based system for speedier reporting of communicable diseases among health agencies has been developed to replace a process that depended in part on written reporting and e-mail messages. It is in use in the state health department and three of state's LINCS (Local Information Network Communications System) sites, and should be operating in all 22 counties in the next year.
Even a critic like the Rahway health officer, Richard Proctor, who once described the state's patchwork approach to bio-terrorism as ''blind men trying to describe an elephant,'' praised the plan as ''very comprehensive.''
''I'm way different than I was last year,'' Mr. Proctor said. ''I'm very impressed. They are addressing every critical issue that can be posed at this point.''
But Richard Preston, a New Yorker writer who recently had published ''The Demon in the Freezer,'' a chilling look at the smallpox threat, said, ''The emergency management plan looks good on paper, but the reality is that the New Jersey Department of Health is not at all prepared to deal with a major act of bio-terrorism, particularly small pox.''
Mr. Preston said in a telephone interview that the state health department had been weakened by the loss of good epidemiologists and lacked ''the depth of experience in managing infectious disease outbreaks.''
In addition, he said that its system for reporting communicable diseases has been inadequate and that despite the partnership between the state and Becton Dickinson to monitor smallpox vaccinations, most hospitals were still unprepared to conduct mass inoculations.
Responding to the criticism, Dr. Lacy said most of those concerns were addressed in the plan and added he was reorganizing the department to focus on bio-terrorism. Measures include creating a new division of pre-hospital and hospital preparedness and establishing the post of deputy commissioner devoted exclusively to public health emergency preparedness.
Among 10 new hires is a physician from the epidemiological investigation unit of the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta to serve as medical director of the state communicable disease service, he added.
''In my conversations with many people,'' Dr. Lacy said, ''I believe that New Jersey is ahead of the curve in preparedness. If there were a major health emergency tomorrow, New Jersey would not be as efficient and effective as one would hope optimally, but every day we get better.''
Photos: A paramedic helps suit up a worker from St. Barnabas Health Care System, which has bought 10 decontamination trailers. State Health Commissioner Clifton R. Lacy, below, introduced new procedures for handling terrorist attacks. (Timothy Ivy for The New York Times and, left, Associated Press)
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Inv1
