Morning Agenda: Foxconn Strikes Deal for Sharp - The New York Times
Foxconn is grappling with rising labor costs in China and a slowdown in the global smartphone market, but it managed to forestall its weakening relationship with Apple by striking a deal to acquire the screen maker Sharp of Japan for $3.5 billion,
Foxconn said it would take over 66 percent of Sharp, with a total investment of 389 billion yen, or about $3.5 billion. Foxconn is buying 289 billion worth of common Sharp shares and an additional 99.99 billion worth of nonvoting preferred shares.
The total investment is well below the $5.5 billion that Foxconn was expected to pay last month before it balked over the discovery that a new owner could be liable for close to $3 billion in potential liabilities.
The deal comes after weeks of public negotiations and high-profile setbacks, and should make Foxconn a more attractive partner for Apple, which uses Sharp screens in its iPhones.
Analysts are still skeptical  they say Foxconn gets an ailing business that will take a considerable amount of money to turn around, even if it does get a bigger chunk of the global supply chain.
The deal is a return to form for Foxconn in its emphasis on scale. Even as it has tried to maintain its enormous scale, it has also been trying to climb up the value chain to find more profitable streams of revenue.
Commentators and analysts have drawn lessons from the mess surrounding Valeant, but few of them are convincing,
Some contend that Valeant is like Enron, a house of cards waiting to be brought down by an inevitable accounting scandal. But Valeant is a real operating business and there is no indication of outright fraud.
Others have cautioned about the McKinsey-driven ethos  J. Michael Pearson was a McKinsey consultant for 23 years. But McKinsey has also been at the forefront of arguments about long-term shareholder value.
Warnings about Valeants decision to cut research and development
are based on a nonsensical notion that R&D can never be bad. There has been an uproar about predatory pricing, but there is no transparency around Valeants pricing and its products still sell.
Hedge funds like ValueAct have also been blamed. This explains the business strategy, but it does not help us understand what went wrong. Shareholders get their share of the blame too for chasing returns, but this has nothing to do with Valeants business.
So what is the Deal Professors theory? If Wall Street built Valeant, it is now running away from it, Mr. Davidoff Solomon writes. The velocity of the turnaround created views of the company that are not tethered to reality.
It does not make sense for a company with earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, of about $5 billion a year to be worth only $9 billion. Allergan, with Ebitda of $7 billion a year and $40 billion of debt, is worth $110 billion.
This crisis has crushed Valeants previous business model, but it still has billions of dollars in earnings. The intrinsic worth of that business remains the same and the flight by Wall Street shut down its old growth model, but not its business. Wall Street always thinks the worst when things go bad and sometimes it creates a self-fulfilling frenzy.
The Moore Charitable Foundation said it was the victim of fraud by the 39-year-old Wall Street executive Andrew Caspersen,
Matthew Goldstein and Alexandra Stevenson report in DealBook.
The trust, founded by the hedge fund billionaire Louis M. Bacon, said that it was lied to by Andrew Caspersen, a managing director at investment bank PJT Partners, regarding a potential investment related to the publicly announced restructuring of a private equity fund.
The foundation put $25 million into Mr. Caspersens scheme and said that it detected irregularities in a proposed follow-on deal before notifying PJT Partners general council. PJT contacted the United States attorneys office in Manhattan.
The authorities said Mr. Caspersen had lost much of the $25 million in aggressive options trading and, as a condition of his bond, a magistrate judge ordered him to get a mental health evaluation and alcohol testing and treatment.
Jacob J. Lew, the Treasury secretary, will discuss the use of sanctions at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace at 8:45 a.m. The Securities and Exchange Commission will consider whether to adopt new swaps rules in a meeting at 10 a.m. Charles L. Evans, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, will speak at the Forecasters Club of New York Luncheon at 1 p.m.
Spotify is about to close a $1 billion deal that would double the amount of financing it has raised since it was founded a decade ago,
People briefed on the matter said the money comes in the form of convertible debt, which allows investors in the music-streaming company to change their securities into equity at a future date.
The convertible debt allows Spotify to obtain funds without needing to change its valuation. It had an equity value of $8.4 billion last year.
The terms of the debt may put pressure on the company to go public sooner. Investors have the ability to convert to equity at a discount to an initial public offering price  the discount increases if Spotify waits longer than a year to go public. The coupon payment on the debt would also rise over time.
Funds associated with the private equity firm TPG and the investment firm Dragoneer put in $750 million, while the rest came from institutional investors.
TPG and Dragoneer are permitted to cash out their shares as soon as 90 days after an I.P.O., instead of the 180 days employees and other shareholders get, according to The Wall Street Journal, which earlier reported the deal.
Lester C. Thurow, Economist Who Seized the Spotlight, Is Dead at 77
A prolific writer and popular public speaker, Mr. Thurow sounded an early alarm about the growing income gap between rich and poor Americans.NYT 
Starwood Bidder Is a Reclusive Chinese Insurer With Opaque Backing
Anbang, which is in a bidding war for Starwood Hotels, is controlled by a murky group of interconnected companies and led by a reclusive chairman.NYT |Breakingviews: Starwoods Takeover Offer From Anbang is Risky, but Worth It 2:23 PM
Starwoods Takeover Offer From Anbang Is Risky, but Worth It
Heavy interest from rival hoteliers means Starwood can afford to take the Anbang Insurance Groups offer, which is $4.64 more per share than its deal with Marriott, Jeffrey Goldfarb writes in Breakingviews.Breakingviews |Starwood Bidder Is an Ambitious Chinese Insurer With Opaque Backing 11:52 AM
The announcement came after Metro agreed in June to sell Galeria Kaufhof, the leading department store chain in Germany and Belgium, to the Hudsons Bay Company.NYT 
Norfolk Southern Steps Up Fight Against Canadian Pacific Merger
In a letter to employees, Norfolk Southerns chief executive, Jim Squires, said that the company is making good progress on its restructuring plans and that employees should vote against merger talks. the wall street journal
Swedbank to Replace Chairman After He Lost Investor Support
The departure of Anders Sundstrom as chairman of the Swedish lender followed the ouster of Michael Wolf, its chief executive, in February.NYT 
The monitor overseeing HSBCs compliance with a landmark anti-money-laundering settlement has uncovered potential lapses including loans to companies that exported miniskirts to Iran and candy to Syria, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing a person familiar with the findings. the wall street journal
UniCredit, Italys largest bank by assets, is in talks with the government in Rome about seeking support for a 2 billion euro capital raising at the mutual bank Popolare di Vicenza, a deal seen as a crucial test of investor confidence in Italys lenders, The Financial Times reports, citing people with direct knowledge of the matter.the financial times
Chinese Textile Maker to Buy Owner of Sandro and Claudie Pierlot
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts plans to sell SMCP to Chinas Shandong Ruyi in a deal that values the French fashion group at 1.3 billion euros, including debt, The Financial Times reports, citing people familiar with the matter.the financial times
Xu Xiang was a legend in the countrys booming stock market  until the bubble he helped to create took him down with it.Feature 
Robo-Adviser Betterment Gets $100 Million in Venture Capital
The investment, which Betterment says it will use to increase product development and expand its business, pushes the firms valuation to $700 million.NYT 
Janet Yellen Says Fed Still Plans to Raise Interest Rates but Carefully
In remarks to the Economic Club of New York, the Federal Reserve chairwoman said she expected the domestic economy to improve this year.NYT 
Latest Plan to Rescue Puerto Rico Is Met With Disdain on Island
The plan calls for putting Puerto Ricos finances under a presidentially appointed oversight board  a bitter pill to many on the island.NYT 
Prosecutor in Bear Stearns Case to Leave U.S. Attorneys Office
James G. McGovern, the head of the criminal division at the United States attorneys office in Brooklyn, said he would join the law firm Hogan Lovells as a partner.NYT 
Bank of England to Raise Bank Capital Buffer as Safeguard
The buffer is intended to ensure that British banks can provide lending and other essential banking services during times of financial stress.NYT 
F.T.C. Sues Volkswagen Over Deceptive Diesel Car Ads
The Federal Trade Commission accused VW of selling or leasing more than 550,000 diesel vehicles using a campaign that said they met emissions standards.NYT 
Hackers broke into the computer networks at some of the countrys most prestigious law firms, and federal investigators are exploring whether they stole confidential information for the purpose of insider trading, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing people familiar with the matter. the wall street journal
Simmering for Decades, Anger About Trade Boils Over in 16 Election
Bashing trade deals has proved a winning strategy for Donald Trump, but economists mostly agree they have benefited American households significantly.NYT 
The company will help large businesses take advantage of evolving technologies, markets and incentives in energy efficiency, renewables and storage.NYT 
Canberra is ending the Australian Securities Exchange monopoly on equity clearing and relaxing ownership restrictions in a decision that removes a potential hurdle to the ASXs participation in overseas mergers.the financial times
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Anbang Insurance Group Co, Audio Recordings, Downloads and Streaming, Australia, Bacon, Louis Moore, Bank of England, Banking and Financial Institutions, Bear Stearns Cos, Betterment LLC, Breakingviews.com, Caspersen, Andrew, China, Computer Security, Credit and Debt, Evans, Charles L, Federal Trade Commission, Foxconn Technology, Frauds and Swindling, Galeria Kaufhof GmbH, Hogan Lovells, Initial Public Offerings, Lew, Jacob J, McKinsey & Co, Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures, Pearson, John Michael (1959- ), PJT Partners Inc, Private Equity, Puerto Rico, Securities and Commodities Violations, Stocks and Bonds, United States, United States Economy, Venture Capital, Xu Xiang, Yellen, Janet L
