Seeking iPhone Data, Through the Front Door - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
The Opinion Pages|Seeking iPhone Data, Through the Front Door
By WILLIAM J. BRATTON and JOHN J. MILLERFEB. 22, 2016
THE government and Apple have chosen interesting ground on which to contest the limits of government access to data on mobile devices. The case involves an F.B.I. request for Apples assistance in opening a phone once carried by Syed Rizwan Farook, who with his wife was responsible for the terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Calif., that left 14 dead and 22 wounded.On one level, this should be comfortable space for the government. First, the phone is owned by the County of San Bernardino, which issued it to Mr. Farook, an employee of its health department. The county, as Apples customer, has no problem having its phone opened. Second, Mr. Farook and his wife were killed in a gun battle with the police early last December. Under the law, dead people have no privacy rights.But Apple is making a stand because the government wants it to create something against its will: code that would disable a feature that erases all content after 10 failed password attempts. Tim Cook, Apples chief executive, has said that if this happens, the floodgates will open to similar law enforcement requests, putting customers data at risk. And not just in the United States: Apple supporters have raised concerns that other countries, particularly China and Russia, are likely to follow suit.Mr. Cooks position is hyperbolic, in our view. But beyond the legal case, there is an ethics issue unfolding here.Until 17 months ago, Apple held the key that could override protections and open phones. Apple used this master key to comply with court orders in drug, kidnapping, murder and terrorism cases. There was no documented instance of this code getting out to hackers or to the government. So what was the problem Apple was trying to fix when it abruptly announced, in September 2014, that with its new iOS 8, Apple will not perform iOS data extractions in response to government search warrants?
Some believe that allegations by Edward J. Snowden of mass surveillance of phone and Internet communications by the National Security Agency stoked fears among Apples customers that the government was spying on them. Perhaps an iPhone that even Apple couldnt unlock might allay such fears, while also helping sales by offering more privacy and security.But Mr. Snowden claimed that the N.S.A. was capturing some Americans Internet traffic from overseas, not that the agency was hacking into smartphones. Moreover, Apples position on privacy seems at odds with its own strategy of encouraging customers to pay to store personal data on iCloud, which is also vulnerable to hackers.Apple partisans also argue that the company is trying to protect privacy in places like China, where governments could demand access to phones belonging to dissidents. But Apple could refuse those requests, or have China make them through the State Department, a means of insulating itself from unreasonable demands. That is often how the United States asks for assistance from overseas corporations in investigations.Apple and privacy advocates have framed this debate as the government wanting to create a back door into peoples devices. But the Constitution protects people from unreasonable search and seizure. And for more than 200 years, the standard has been for law enforcement to obtain a warrant signed by a judge, based on probable cause.What the government is actually requesting here is that Apple restore a key that was available until late 2014. Complying with constitutionally legal court orders is not creating a back door; in a democracy, that is a front door.Mr. Cook says Apples ultimate goal is to provide customers safety from attack. But Mr. Cook does not seem to be talking about the kind of attack that took 14 lives in San Bernardino. Presumably, he means attacks from hackers or what he may view as government intrusion  even when that intrusion is legal.The phone in the San Bernardino case stopped uploading data to the cloud about six weeks before the killings. That suggests there may be information inside the device that was deliberately concealed. That could include the identities of terrorists who influenced or directed the attack; such information, if pursued, could prevent future plots. Or the iPhone might contain nothing of value. It is Apples position that we should never know.
Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, The Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
The ramifications of this fight extend beyond San Bernardino. Brittany Mills was a 29-year-old woman who was eight months pregnant when she was murdered in Baton Rouge, La. Apple says it cant comply with a search warrant and open her iPhone even though the police believe the identity of the killer is contained in her device.
Ms. Mills was an Apple customer. So were some of the people who died with iPhones in their pockets in the San Bernardino and Paris attacks. How is not solving a murder, or not finding the message that might stop the next terrorist attack, protecting anyone?Google, which owns the Android system, now indicates that it will follow Apples lead. For those companies, and others like them, there is a sound argument in not wanting, even indirectly, to become an arm of the government. But when you are the two companies whose operating systems handle more than 90 percent of mobile communications worldwide, you should be accountable for more than just sales.
William J. Bratton is the New York City police commissioner and John J. Miller is the deputy commissioner for counterterrorism and intelligence.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.
A version of this op-ed appears in print on February 23, 2016, on page A27 of the New York edition with the headline: Why Apple Should Unlock an iPhone.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
