For One Member of Famed N.H.L. Class, Reality Took a Different Path - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Hockey|For One Member of Famed N.H.L. Class, Reality Took a Different Path
For One Member of Famed N.H.L. Class, Reality Took a Different Path
Scott Scissons (14) holding off Bob Corkum during an exhibition game in Anaheim, Calif., in 1993.
Every so often, Scott Scissons is asked to make a speech. He tends to begin the same way, with a moment of levity: Five players were chosen ahead of him in the 1990 draft, he says, but no one in the crowd is likely to have heard of them.Those five players  Owen Nolan, Petr Nedved, Keith Primeau, Mike Ricci and Jaromir Jagr  have combined to score 1,990 regular-season goals in the N.H.L. Scissons, a center taken by the Islanders right after the Pittsburgh Penguins selected Jagr, had none.Everyone laughs, and so does Scissons, and then he gets to his point.The reality is, Scissons says, life can go one of a couple ways.His way involved making his debut for the Islanders at 19, sustaining a series of debilitating injuries that forced him to retire at 23, and returning home to Saskatchewan to attain a different sort of professional satisfaction: working in the family business, selling and servicing mobile homes.More than 20 years after retiring, Scissons, 44, seems to be at peace. Nothing was promised to him, so nothing is owed. He played three N.H.L. games  three more than most boys from Saskatoon ever do  and traveled the world playing the sport he loved.I dont know if I ever truly dealt with it at that age, Scissons said in an interview. Its probably easier just to put it in this box and say I was hurt and I couldnt do it anymore. When you sit back and get into it, you missed out on what you could have been. That can haunt you. If you ever sat and truly allowed yourself to wallow in it, you could be in an awfully bad spot.One scene in the 2011 film Moneyball resonates. In it, the Oakland Athletics executive and former player Billy Beane, played by Brad Pitt, asks the sabermetrically inclined character Peter Brand, played by Jonah Hill, whether he would have selected Beane in the first round. No, the ninth, Brand tells him.
No kid ever asks to be drafted where theyre picked, Scissons said. Kids that are picked in the first round, its a burden to wear. Its a letter A that you wear around your friends and peer group because you werent as successful as you wanted to be.By many degrees, Scissons was plenty successful. He scored 70 goals in his first two years of junior hockey and added 24 more in his third season, after being drafted by the Islanders. Around then, his back started to bother him  sharp, intense pain that went as quickly as it came.
He played his first game with the Islanders at the end of the 1990-91 season, against Cam Neely and the Boston Bruins. Scissons felt petrified before the game. But he played a few good shifts, and afterward, drenched with sweat, he was comfortable, certain of his place.
Only one member of the 1990 N.H.L. Draft Class is still playing: Jaromir Jagr, who remains as much a marvel at 44 as he was 26 years ago, at 18. Heres a look at every player from that draft:
He spent the next season with the Canadian national team, and late in an exhibition game against Montreal, John LeClair leveled him from behind, damaging Scissonss shoulder. While recovering from surgery, Scissons endured symptoms  numbness in his legs, tingling in his toes  that would lead to another operation, to remove a disk from his back.You cant fathom those kinds of injuries, Scissons said. It probably just wasnt meant to be.An injury to Pierre Turgeon in May 1993, caused by an infamous blindside hit from Washingtons Dale Hunter, gave Scissons a chance to play in a postseason game against Montreal. Then, in October 1993, three weeks before his 22nd birthday, he played his final N.H.L. game. He lingered for two seasons in the International Hockey League, registering 57 points in 102 games, and pondered a comeback. But a doctor told Scissons that his next back surgery would involve inserting rods.
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
I remember those times were pretty dark, Scissons said. You get to be sick of being hurt, and your brain starts doing different things. You go from one doctors office to the next, to another machine to another machine. You start to crave some normalcy, some success. Its no different than a craftsman who cant build that thing hes building. Until you have some sense of accomplishment or job satisfaction, its a pretty, pretty cold life.That satisfaction would come later, after he earned a degree in commerce and began working for the company his grandfather established in 1953. There is no sign in the office of his past life, Scissons said. His father asked if he would hang some jerseys, but Scissons demurred. Some clients remember his name, but others do not. If he gets stuck on a sale, he may use a hockey analogy.Its a good icebreaker, Scissons said. The thing about being Canadian, everybodys got an opinion about hockey.And about his career as well.Im the punch line to a lot of jokes, Scissons said, including those he makes about himself. But other than the health part, I wouldnt change a thing.
A version of this article appears in print on April 9, 2016, on page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Different Path for Man Drafted Just Behind Jagr.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
