For the last year, the Department of Homeland Security has been routinely monitoring social networking sites like Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and even MySpace. It is an avid reader of The Huffington Post, Jihad Watch, Technorati and, oddly, TruckingInfo.com. But apparently it has no interest in Techmeme and TechCrunch.
This according to a social media monitoring and situational awareness initiative update released by the Department of Homeland Security. The document, which has left some people in the computer security industry scratching their heads, details over 100 sites that Homeland Securitys National Operations Center has been monitoring to provide situational awareness and establish a common operating picture for the last year.
Homeland Security seems to have a real affinity for Twitter. It advises its employees to follow not only Twitter itself but also Twitter search sites like Monitter, Tweetzi and Tweefind and more than 10 Twitter trend sites like TweetStats and Trendistic.
It monitors Facebook and, while it also recommends monitoring MySpace, it notes the once-popular social network has limited search capabilities. Homeland Security employees also monitor video sites like YouTube, Vimeo and Hulu  situational awareness apparently entails full episodes of The Bachelor.
Among the blogs the department follows: Wireds Threat Level and Danger Room, Krebs on Security and, at The New York Times, The Lede blog. The list also includes more controversial sites like JihadWatch, Wikileaks and Narcotrfico en Mxico.
Absent from the list: Techmeme, TechCrunch and Boing Boing, which seemed really hurt by this. Apparently Homeland Security thinks Picfog and TruckingInfo.com are more interesting.
Lets give the Homeland Security Department some help. Where would you tell them to monitor? List them in the comments section.
Computer Security, Department of Homeland Security, malware, Virus
Todays Scuttlebot: MySpace Surprise and Intels Mobile Chip
Googles New Search Results Raise Privacy and Antitrust Concerns
Visit the Technology section for complete coverage of the industry. 
