Privacy commissioner says Google broke law with ads | Toronto Star
Two knife threats, two videos: How the Yatim shooting could have gone
Fraud allegations hard to believe, says firefighters widow
Panama Papers hold new evidence in dispute over Modigliani painting
Privacy commissioner says Google broke law with ads
Chantal Bernier said shes confident web giant will force advertisers to respect consumers rights after probe.
Canada's interim privacy commissioner says Google has been caught afoul of the law by displaying web ads linked to a person's health history.
Canadas interim privacy commissioner says shes confident Google will force advertisers to respect consumers rights after a probe found the search giants online ad service targeted an individual with health promotions after tracking his activity on the web.
Chantal Bernier, named to six-month tenure after the departure of former commissioner Jennifer Stoddart, said Google has already implemented some of the recommendations disclosed on the privacy commissioners website Wednesday and will comply in full by June.
European regulators ask Google to clarify privacy policy
She said Google has ended the unlawful tracking activity of an unnamed advertiser whose repeated violations prompted a complaint from an individual who had been searching for sleep apnea aids.
But she acknowledged the commission lacks authority to order compliance or levy fines and other penalties.
Her predecessor had lobbied for legislative updates to reflect challenges in the digital economy, arguing that the lack of incentive for companies to obey means the privacy laws are losing relevance.
Stoddart has said the Federal Court should have power to impose significant penalties on companies that violate privacy laws, such as the $22.5-million (U.S.) fine over violations Google accepted from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission in 2012.
Bernier has similar views to Stoddarts, but said the commission is doing the best we can with what we have.
While naming and shaming companies can be effective, at the end of the day they dont have any enforcement powers, said Ryerson University professor and cyber law expert Avner Levin.
Ottawa may have been reluctant to toughen privacy laws given Canadians apparent complacency about online privacy threats as suggested in polls, he added.
And while the commissioner has the option of taking companies to Federal Court if they refuse to comply with recommendations, Levin noted that the avenue can be long, expensive and risky.
The privacy ombudsmans recommendations are in response to a complaint from an individual who after searching online for medical devices to treat apnea, a condition that affects breathing during sleep, was followed by advertisements for the devices as he visited unrelated websites.
We also have concerns about whether other advertising networks are complying with Canadian privacy law, Bernier said. We will be contacting various advertising stakeholders in the near future to share these investigation results and remind them of their privacy obligations.
While so-called behavioral advertising is not illegal, Canadas privacy laws prohibit advertisers from collecting sensitive personal information, such as individuals health information, for the purpose of delivering tailored ads.
Googles own privacy policy says when tailored ads are shown, the company will not associate a cookie or other identifiers with sensitive categories, such as race, religion, sexual orientation or health.
Google says the problem identified during the investigation relates to remarketing campaigns  which allow an advertiser to target ads to recent visitors to their site. Google acknowledged that some of the advertisers using its ad service do not comply with the corporations policy against interest-based advertising relating to sensitive issues.
The investigation identified shortcomings in Googles monitoring systems. The Privacy Commissioner recommended Google develop a more formalized and rigorous system for reviewing advertisements for policy compliance.
In response to the Privacy Commissioners concerns, the Mountain View, Calif.-based company committed to:
Provide additional information to advertisers creating remarketing campaigns;
Increase monitoring of remarketing campaigns for possible violations of its policy;
Offer more training to its own staff in addressing potential policy violations; and
Weve worked closely with the office of the privacy commissioner throughout this process and are pleased to be resolving this issue, said a Google Canada spokeswoman in a statement.
Fraud allegations hard to believe, says firefighters widow
2 knife threats, 2 videos: Ohio cop had different approach than James Forcillo
Let your conscience guide you on sex, marriage, says pope
N.S. politician says hes being blackmailed over male escort call
Panama Papers offer rare glimpse into hidden art ownership of wealthy
Two dead in apparent murder-suicide at Air Force base in Texas
Jays home opener curveball messes with family tradition
Partner ContentExplore investment options from your couch
The Kit: Pretty Little Liars Lucy Hale reveals her #1 beaut
GTA real estate market on pace for another year of record-breaking sales
Sales in the first quarter of 2016 rose 15.8 per cent from the opening three months of last year, according to the Toronto Real Estate Board.
Toronto, Vancouver sales of luxury homes to defy gravity this spring
Five things to know about Canadas new mortgage rules
Torontos east end has the hottest real estate in the city
Two knife threats, two videos: Ohio cop had strikingly different approach than James Forcillo
Fraud allegations hard to believe, says firefighters widow
Video British PM says he sold stake in fathers offshore fund in 2010
Video The Bandidos massacre: An execution assembly line wiped out the Toronto biker gang 10 years ago
American Idol pulls off surprises even as it crowns last-ever winner
