Mets Receive Rings of Their Own, for Being N.L. Champions - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Baseball|Mets Receive Rings of Their Own, for Being N.L. Champions
Mets Receive Rings of Their Own, for Being N.L. Champions
David Wright, speaking to reporters on Thursday, said: After we get the rings, its officially  last years over. We need to start worrying about this year.
After enduring two ceremonies in Kansas City, Mo., this week honoring the Royals World Series victory, the Mets gathered on Thursday at Citi Field for their own ceremony. It was a private, intimate affair to hand out their own rings, for being the National League champions in 2015.The only sign that it might have been an important day was that the injured pitchers Zack Wheeler and Josh Edgin and the newly retired Michael Cuddyer flew in for the occasion, and that Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo was also on hand.Im very proud, third baseman David Wright said. We got an opportunity to get our rings today, and I think all of us will wear that proudly. But at the same time, its time to move on. After we get the rings, its officially  last years over. We need to start worrying about this year.The Mets had repeated that message all week, but their opening week has been so quirky it has been difficult to get into the rhythm of the season. Because the Mets played on the first day of the season, their first five days consisted of two games and three days off. On top of that, they were unsure if Jacob deGrom would start the home opener, on Friday against the Phillies, because his wife was due to give birth. Also, with snow in the forecast, their game on Saturday could be in jeopardy.As of Thursday afternoon, during the Mets workout at Citi Field, deGrom said that he still planned to make the start, unless his wife went into labor. During the first two games in Kansas City, he had given his wife the trainers phone number so she could call and tell someone to alert him during the game. A reporter asked deGrom what he would do Friday if his wife went into labor during the game.Whenever I get the call, he said, Im going to go ahead and leave.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page B9 of the New York edition with the headline: Little Fanfare as Mets Get N.L. Rings.
Noah Syndergaard Steadies Mets as Royals Temper Emotions
Noah Syndergaard Steadies Mets as Royals Temper Emotions
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
