Spotify Revamps New Privacy Policy After User Backlash : PERSONAL TECH : Tech Times
Spotify Revamps New Privacy Policy After User Backlash
Spotify has revamped its new privacy policy, as company CEO Daniel Ek kept his promise to protect the privacy of the music streaming service's users.(Photo : Spotify)
Spotify has revamped its new privacy policy for a clearer explanation on how the music streaming service utilizes the data of its users, after the company faced backlash from the vague language that it used for the controversial policy that was released last month.
The new privacy policy, which took effect last Aug. 19, requiredusers to agree that their information which Spotify gathers will be used, shared and processed by the service, including media files, pictures, details of contacts, and the location of the user.
It was unclear on why Spotify would need such information in carrying out its music streaming service, but users were being forced to agree to the policy if they wanted to continue using Spotify.
The new privacy policy sparked outrage and criticism from users due to privacy concerns, which promptedSpotify CEO Daniel Ek to issue an apology to the public regarding the matter, clarifying certain aspects of the policy and promising to protect the privacy of the service's users.
"If you don't want to share this kind of information, you don't have to. We will ask for your express permission before accessing any of this data - and we will only use it for specific purposes that will allow you to customize your Spotify experience," explained Ek.
It seems that Ek is following through with his promise, as Spotify has now released a revamped updated privacy policy with a plain-language introduction that looks to be a clear statement on Spotify's principles and approach regarding user privacy.
"We hope it provides a healthy dose of clarity and context too," wroteEk in the Spotify blog post that announces the updated policy.
The preface states that Spotify will only collect data either to help run the music streaming service or to provide more features to users. For the second purpose, Spotify will be asking for the permission of the user before accessing data such as pictures, location, voice, data sharing or contacts. If the user would choose to allow Spotify to access such information, the user can at any time choose to revoke the permission.
Spotify said that the revamped privacy policy will be received by users over the next few days and weeks, including users that already agreed to the controversial version of the policy.
Enjoyed reading this story? For more awesome news, reviews, features and analyses, subscribe to Tech Times newsletter. We value your privacy and we will never sell or distribute your email or personal data to third party advertisers.
Related ArticlesSpotify Partners With Withings To Release The Aura Connected Alarm Clock For An Enhanced Sleep ExperienceSpotify And Other Streaming Service Curators Are Reportedly Taking 'Playola' Payments For Playlist PlacementCountry Music Star Jason Aldean On Spotify: 'Artists Don't Make Crap'Spotify CEO Says Sorry After New Privacy Policy Makes Users See RedTop 10 Artist Lists Show Audience Differences Between SoundCloud, Spotify And YouTube
 2016 Tech Times, All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Adult FriendFinder Hack Has Compromised Your Sexual Orientation And Other Steamy Secrets. Oops!
Google I/O 2015 Kicking Off Next Week: What To Expect ... And Not Expect
Google To Fulfill All Project Fi Invites By Mid-Summer
Google I/O 2015 Kicking Off Next Week: What To Expect ... And Not Expect
Kickass Torrents, Torrentz Take Over As Court Orders The Pirate Bay Shutdown
Dating Site Adult Friend Finder Hacked, Exposing Millions Of Users
Popcorn Time Lets You Stream Torrents In Your Browser: Let's Go Pirates!
If You Forgot What Terror Was Like ... It's The Trap-Jaw Spider - With Lightning Strike!
Maternal Obesity, Diabetes Result To Overgrowth Of Baby In The Womb
'Keurig For Craft Beer' Maker Introduces Its Smart Wine Dispenser That Pours The Perfect Glass And Learns Your Palate
Manuscript Reveals Isaac Newton's Recipe For Philosopher's Stone
Which Retailer Exclusive Version Of 'Star Wars: The Force Awakens' On Blu-ray Is The Best?
Trailer For Live-Action 'Star Wars' Show Coming To Netflix Is A Cruel, Cruel Joke
Reverse Photosynthesis Uses Sunlight To Convert Plant Biomass Into Fuel
Newly Discovered Viking Site In Canada May Rewrite History
HTC 10 vs. HTC One M9: The Successor Challenging The Flagship Smartphone
Nintendo Miitomo: How To Get Started And Hot To Get More Coins
LG G5 vs. Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge Speed Test: Which Flagship Smartphone Is Faster?
Verizon Releases Android 6.0 Marshmallow Update For Samsung Galaxy S6 And S6 Edge
Ancient Power Elites Use Ritual Human Sacrifice To Create Unequal Societies
Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model X vs. Tesla Model S: Which Car Is Right For You?
If You Forgot What Terror Was Like ... It's The Trap-Jaw Spider - With Lightning Strike!
Interview: 'Axanar' Team Responds To CBS 'Star Trek' Lawsuit
Vitamin D Supplements Linked To Improvements In Heart Failure Patients
Zack Snyder Explains Big Dream Sequence In 'Batman v Superman'
Thar She Blows - Can Sperm Whales Ram Ships Like Moby Dick?
How Did Space Archeologists Spot The Second Viking Colony In North America Using Satellite Imagery?
Waistline Better Than BMI In Predicting Heart Disease Risk
Interview: 'Axanar' Team Responds To CBS 'Star Trek' Lawsuit
Samsung Galaxy S7 And S7 Edge Shipping Notices Arrive For T-Mobile Preorders
Verizon Releases Android 6.0.1 Marshmallow For Samsung Galaxy S6 And S6 Edge
Nintendo Fires Female Staffer Alison Rapp: What Is The Real Reason?
Which Retailer Exclusive Version Of 'Star Wars: The Force Awakens' On Blu-ray Is Best?
Nest May Offer Revolv Owners Compensation On Case-By-Case Basis
Ancient Power Elites Use Ritual Human Sacrifice To Create Unequal Societies
Global Warming Threatens Mental Health: Climate Change May Increase Incidence Of PTSD And Depression
Reddit Introduces Block User Feature To Help Users Fight Harassment, Trolls And Spam
Samsung Galaxy Note 5 Android Marshmallow Issues: Wi-Fi Problems, Battery Drain And More
Samsung Likely Shipped 10 Million Galaxy S7 Units In Q1: Analyst
Touching Robots In Sensitive Places Turn On Humans: A Peek Of Things To Come?
Reverse Photosynthesis Uses Sunlight To Convert Plant Biomass Into Fuel
Trailer For Live-Action 'Star Wars' Show Coming To Netflix Is A Cruel, Cruel Joke
Galaxy S7 Performance Issues: Is The Exynos 8890 Overheating During Stretched Gaming Sessions?
No Joke: 'Star Wars: The Force Awakens' Is Coming To Digital HD Platforms On April 1
'World Of Warcraft: Legion's' Proposed PvP Changes Feel Like A Slap In The Face For Non-Raiders
The Division General Assembly Glitch: Shortcut Allows You To Farm Purple Drops In Half The Time
Interview: 'Axanar' Team Responds To CBS 'Star Trek' Lawsuit
Which Retailer Exclusive Version Of 'Star Wars: The Force Awakens' On Blu-ray Is The Best?
'Dark Souls 3' Beginner's Guide: Building The Best Character For Melee Or Magic
Each Episode of 'Final Fantasy VII' Remake Will Be Size Of Full Game
'Quantum Break' Beginner's Guide: The Best Way To Play
'Dark Souls 3' Combat Guide: 5 Tips For New Players
April Update For 'Destiny' Is Bringing Big Changes To Warlocks
Trailer For Live-Action 'Star Wars' Show Coming To Netflix Is A Cruel, Cruel Joke
Shane McMahon Gains Control Of 'Raw' - Will He Keep It?
Legend Of Zelda: Ocarina Of Time's Zora's Domain Is A Sight To Behold
About Us | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Media Kit
Top Stories From Tech Times Delivered To Your Inbox.
