Career Coaching for the Playdate Generation - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Education Life|Career Coaching for the Playdate Generation
Jonathan Harsh got a $4,995 coaching package, including a career discovery process. He says his career coach, Maura Koutoujian, helped him figure himself out.
The job outlook for new graduates is the best its been in years, but thats hardly the point. For the playdate generation, expertly guided through life transitions from preschool to college, graduation is scary. Raised with a keen awareness of competition, students see a degree not as a finish line but as the start of the next heat.Last fall, Jonathan Harsh, a senior majoring in political science at Beloit College in Wisconsin, was marinating in uncertainty: Am I good enough at what I am doing to get ahead? Are other people taking a better route? His career ambitions have swung from astronaut, biologist or chemist to maybe being a writer or working on a political campaign. Plus, he likes theater.Cue the career coaches  onetime tutors, test preppers and executive coaches who have created a blossoming industry to guide students in choosing majors, landing internships, exploring careers and seeking first jobs.Students are more confused than ever about what the next step is, said Nicole Oringer, co-owner of Ivy Educational Services, a New Jersey company that began career coaching four years ago, often to students they had helped with college applications. Turning to experts seems only natural: This is a generation of students that has been given a lot of resources and advice.Personal career guidance is not cheap. While help finding a job can cost a few hundred dollars, some companies charge $300 an hour for services that might involve deciphering strengths, arranging job shadowing and working on rsums, interview techniques and job search strategies. Walking a student through an extended exploration can run $5,000.
Mr. Harshs parents engaged Maura Koutoujian of Jody Michael Associates for the $4,995 package, including a proprietary career discovery process. From October through March, they met almost weekly in person or over FaceTime. Parents who can afford the service slip it under the cost umbrella of launching a child into adulthood, like tutoring or college application help. Mr. Harshs father, Michael, a retired vice president at General Electric, sees it as a worthwhile investment to help his son learn how to leverage his skills to make a career. A coach can help pull that out, frame it, he said. We want it to be a deliberate step, not something that happens.Through the process, Ms. Koutoujian helped Mr. Harsh understand his values (honesty, accountability, kindness, integrity), unearthed interests and gave him the Highlands Ability Battery, an assessment to uncover talents and tendencies. Jon is a very strong specialist, she said. (Specialists prefer to contribute independently while generalists like to work in teams.) His ideaphoria is very, very high. He has lots and lots of ideas. He shuns the spotlight, loves to research and wants to give back and to do something noteworthy.In the companys Zen-themed Chicago office, amid a career library of job guidebooks and self-awareness material, Mr. Harsh met Ms. Koutoujian to explore how those qualities match a job path. What might suit a specialist and introvert? What fields within government? Or theater? Ms. Koutoujian is careful not to prescribe: It is really about him learning about himself.To parents, such plotted ruminations sound foreign. It was dumb luck that we ended up where we are, Michael Harsh said of his own path and his wifes, in nursing. But hopscotching your way to a career these days reads as risky, given escalating student loan debt. Students also worry about matching parents success.There is a fear of downward mobility and a sense that We have to get this right, Ms. Oringer said.Students have reason to fret. There are more choices, and a furiously evolving career landscape. They face an entirely different reality than their parents did, said Anthony P. Carnevale, director of the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce.He noted that high school graduates once could work up to engineering jobs. Now, requirements for more education have made training more drawn out and specialized. Between 1985 and 2010, the number of programs of study jumped from 462 to 2,260, to serve what he described as a much more complicated career pathway. Career fields have multiplied, too. In 1950, the Bureau of Labor Statistics tracked 270; in 2010, there were 840.Students must figure out what they care about and where to jump on. And they want help doing it.That message has been slow to arrive on campuses, though some are shedding the job-posting-clearinghouse mentality to offer more personal help. The College of Liberal Arts at the University of Minnesota has doubled its career counseling staff, bringing to 10 the number available to guide the colleges 13,676 undergraduates. Last October, the office required first-year students to attend an open house to get an assignment (make a rsum), the first in the four-year career prep program.
We do not want them to wait until they are seniors, said Paul Timmins, the offices director and a president-elect of the National Career Development Association. The ratio of counselor to student is high, and its not the personal attention of private coaching, but Mr. Timmins expects his staff to explore with students their values, personality, interests, and fit that all together to make a major choice or a career choice.
Whats the best career for you? John L. Hollands theory of career choice could help you find out.
Such hand-holding recognizes that, liberal arts education or not, everyone wants a return on investment for college dollars spent. Its also what this generations involved parents demand, said Susie Ellen Clarke, director of Undergraduate Career Services at Indiana Universitys Kelley School of Business. Parents have high expectations for the service their son or daughter will be provided. The resource center approach is out, she said. They want it tailored to them.Thats why, two years ago, Ms. Clarkes office began assigning both an adviser and a career coach to students the moment they were admitted. People in my generation want to know what they are doing way ahead of time, said Lauren Deitch, a senior in the business school who sought out a part-time job at the career offices help desk to get extra guidance herself.Ms. Deitch wont send an important email without her go-to counselor looking it over. She had top summer internships in TV and film, but companies shes interested in didnt start recruiting until March. She is confident but has been rattled by the steady ping of alerts revealing others job news.My friends accept a job offer to Target and the first thing they think is, Oh, I have to post to Instagram, she said. They get 300 likes and that makes other people anxious. Before winter break she deleted her Instagram account. Its hard to enjoy life if you are focused on what everyone else is doing. Continue reading the main story
Being out front with the perfect career move has suddenly become a social necessity. Ms. Clarke, herself the mother of a millennial, fears that parents have fed that fragile mind-set. We have created a generation that doesnt want to make a mistake or fail. Sure, she said, we all want the best for our children, but at some point, they have to do it on their own.Are todays children overcoached? Julie Lythcott-Haims, former dean of freshmen at Stanford and author of How to Raise an Adult, thinks so. What we want is for them not to be continually looking over their shoulders for a parent or hired counselor to tell them what the next steps are, she said. A first job that ends up a poor fit may look like a mistake, but I regard that as really important information.As the job scene grows more complex, she said, students need even more confidence to manage setbacks and plot moves. This notion that you always need a handler, that you will always need somebody, that you dont have the wherewithal to figure it out yourself  I think thats damaging.
And it could hurt job success. A 2014 survey of 482 students at California State University, Fresno, found that those with the most intense helicopter parenting felt less able to make decisions. They gave maladaptive responses to workplace scenarios, said Julie Olson-Buchanan, one of two professors of management who conducted the study.When asked how they would respond to a negative review from an employer, instead of focusing on how they might improve, they were more likely than peers to say they would quit, argue that the rating was unfair or ask a parent to call their manager. If they woke up with a cold the day of a job fair, overparented students were more likely to think the solution was to have my parent bring my rsum and distribute it to employers.The parents who pressed to get their children on coveted sports teams in grade school and edited their essays in high school continued their overinvolvement in college, and now it has moved to that early career level, said Dr. Olson-Buchanan. Parents are even in touch with their childrens job recruiters, she said, asking why their student wasnt hired.Dr. Olson-Buchanan and her co-author, Jill Bradley-Geist, are doing a follow-up study this spring to see how the students have fared in the workplace.While riding the bumps is one thing and falling flat another, it may be hard to tell the difference. The labor market is changing radically, said David L. Blustein, a professor in the counseling, developmental and educational psychology department at Boston College. More automation and the rise of what he calls precarious work  unstable or short-term jobs  lets employers test-drive employees. If guidance can help students make career choices earlier, thats important, he said, because research shows that if people know where they want to go, if they are more intentional about developing their goals, they are better at getting there.So when to guide and when to let go? Parents like Thomas F. Fleming, a partner at Kirkland & Ellis, a Manhattan law firm, is conflicted about how much to help out. Raised in Brooklyn, Mr. Fleming was the first in his family to attend college and navigated school and career himself. His father worked construction and his mother was a liquor store clerk.Yet for his sons  Joe, a 2012 Villanova graduate, and Will, a 2015 graduate of the University of Maryland  Mr. Fleming hired Susan Hay, an executive recruiter who in 2013 started LaunchingU to guide new grads.For two years after college, Joe had lived at home in Nyack, N.Y., while working for an online magazine and a political campaign. He was stumbling, said Mr. Fleming, who landed his own first job as a food buyer for Sheraton Hotels before finding the law. Todays economy is more demanding and complex, with companies wanting well-trained new employees. His sons were eager to be successful, he said, but unclear how to do it. They look at the mountain and they say, I cant reach it.
At the University of Minnesota, first-year students are required to visit the career center.
Ms. Hay helped Joe find his inner worker. He valued being seen as having expertise, she said. He didnt like settings that constantly changed, and wanted to clearly understand what was expected of him. Conversations about his interests led him to graduate school; hes now studying public policy at Duke.
So last summer, after Will graduated and jobs didnt materialize, Mr. Fleming again hired Ms. Hay. With Will, who now works at a Maryland marketing firm, she focused on concrete job advice  take down the online frat pictures, use active verbs in your rsum, prepare four or five stories for interviews that show how you stand out.Ms. Hay reminds her charges that they are 90 percent responsible for the content of the interview. It doesnt matter what the interviewer asks, she said. A young person has to know how to project who they are.Contrary to what some may think, Tell me about yourself is not a prod to recite your chronology, said Carolyn Magnani, a career coach for Ivy Educational Services. Translate it as: How do you fit with this position. Why should we hire you?Dispensing tips and common sense is simple. The harder task, especially for students used to following a recipe for success, is answering questions with no right answer, like: What do you care about?They dont know themselves and they dont know where to begin, said Chris Posti, who a year ago started College Grad CareerCoaching after running an executive coaching and outplacement firm. She blames childhoods in which daily transactions like playdates and soccer practice have trumped self-knowing.We are not growing them in some of the ways we should be growing them, she said. We are more concerned with how they are doing on the lacrosse team.Guidance has become a given in a world that demands ambition not only to soar but also to take off. When you are getting coaching with ACTs and college stuff, this whole new process of being coached for a career sounds very familiar, said Ben Fuerst, who graduated in June from the University of Denver.
Mr. Fuerst went to Ivy Educational Services for help with internships starting in his sophomore year (internships are no longer optional for securing desirable postcollege jobs).Ms. Magnani kept Mr. Fuerst on track with Skype conversations every other week  This is who you should talk to by next week. Mr. Fuerst, who is from Tewksbury, N.J., interned in the office of a New Jersey company that makes packaging materials. Junior year, he landed an internship with Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado and then with the states Office of Early Childhood. Senior year required a few more spitball sessions. Try sports business or stick to politics and policy? He made it through several rounds toward a coveted internship with the National Football League but lost out.In October, he started a job at a consulting firm that works with a federal agency. He likes having a schedule and a routine but doesnt know if this will be my job in a year or two.In my generation, it is so normal and so expected for things to be competitive, said Mr. Fuerst, who was raised in an affluent community of high-achieving parents he describes as hands-on. You have to be the best or you wont stand out. You need guidance.Mr. Harsh, too, sees the worth of career coaching  but mostly in how it helped him figure out himself: Confidence has been an issue. Sometimes I have fears of Should I do this or do that?Come January, Mr. Harsh was excited about a career he hadnt previously thought of: analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency. Its a great feeling to see something that you would like to do and you are able to do, he said. Job requirements favor foreign language skills, and he had studied Japanese and Spanish. He is applying for a C.I.A. internship for 2017 and weighing graduate programs in political science.
Paradoxically, coaching has made him see the limits of career planning. Talking with Maura made me realize you wont know until you try it, he said. Sometimes I may have to wing it and go out and see what happens.
Laura Pappano is author of Inside School Turnarounds and writer in residence at the Wellesley Centers for Women at Wellesley College.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page ED16 of Education Life with the headline: Career Coaching for the Playdate Generation (Thanks, Mom and Dad).
These Two Guys Are Changing How We Think About Fashion
For Staff on Naked and Afraid, Work Is Just a Blur
Merle Haggard and Okie From Muskogee, the Hit That Helped and Hurt Him
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
