A Stern Message to North Korea - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
After weeks of dithering, mostly by China, the United Nations Security Council has finally delivered a serious response to North Koreas dangerous expansion of its nuclear weapons program, unanimously approving the toughest sanctions yet. The penalties respond to the Norths fourth nuclear weapons test, which took place in January, and to the launch, a month later, of a type of missile that could one day hit the United States. They would ban the trade of all conventional weapons as well as luxury goods like Jet Skis and Rolex watches, which are enjoyed by the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un and his generals.Going beyond sanctions in place since 2006, the Security Council mandated that all North Korean cargo entering or leaving a country must be inspected by that country. Some 16 individuals and 12 companies have been added to the sanctions list, allowing for asset freezes and travel bans. North Korea is forbidden from selling gold and rare-earth minerals. But even under the sanctions, the North would still be able to buy oil, and also sell its coal and iron ore as long as the proceeds are not used to finance the nuclear program. This could be hard to track.No matter how tough on paper, the sanctions will be effective only if they are enforced. There are good reasons to doubt that every country will follow through. The burden falls heavily on China, the Norths chief ally in providing food, fuel and political cover.
U.N. Security Council members voted unanimously to impose new sanctions on North Korea.
Chinese leaders have long opposed the Norths nuclear program, but until now they have been reluctant to tighten sanctions, fearing that doing so would destabilize North Korea and send refugees fleeing to China. It took pressure from Washington and the South Korean government to get China to shift course.
Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, The Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
North Koreas nuclear program, first detected nearly 30 years ago, has defied a long-term solution. In 1994, the Clinton administration signed an agreement that froze the Norths plutonium program for nearly a decade before the deal fell apart. President Obama and his predecessor, George W. Bush, largely let the problem drift, as the Norths nuclear arsenal grew to a currently estimated 10 to 16 warheads, most of them produced since 2003.
Tougher sanctions, as important as they are, will not by themselves end this long-term threat. At some point, the Americans, along with China, South Korea, Japan and Russia, will have to find a way to revive negotiations with North Korea to shut down, or at least curb, its nuclear program. In recent months, secret contacts between the Americans and the North foundered on whether to focus on denuclearization or on replacing the current Korean War armistice with a formal peace treaty.Mr. Obama has little time left in his presidency to embark on complex, multiparty negotiations; experts say the North is more confident than ever of its nuclear achievements and less inclined to negotiate. But it is important to get a dialogue going.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.
A version of this editorial appears in print on March 3, 2016, on page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: A Stern Message to North Korea.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
