Marquez Returns to US Where He's Dominated Since 2013 - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Sports|Marquez Returns to US Where He's Dominated Since 2013
Marquez Returns to US Where He's Dominated Since 2013
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 7, 2016, 4:25 P.M. E.D.T.
MotoGP has been filled with drama and crashes since the end of the 2015 season. Marc Marquez hopes to settle things down at the Grand Prix of the Americas this week, where the Spaniard has won the last three years and will be a strong favorite again.The Repsol Honda rider has been simply dominant at the Circuit of the Americas  and in the U.S. in general  since his first career win here in 2013, when he became the youngest rider to top the podium in the motorcycle racing's premiere classification."Austin is a circuit that in the past has been really good for me," Marquez said Thursday. "It is a special place."He could say that about racing in the U.S.Marquez has won the last seven races on American soil, a span that saw him win season championships in 2013 and 2014 before a slip to third last year. The Grand Prix of the Americas will be the only stop in the U.S. in 2016 after the series dropped Indianapolis this season."It's a good country for me," Marquez said, adding he was "really disappointed" the series dropped the U.S. Grand Prix. "I hope in the future we can make more races here."
Marquez comes to Texas as the championship points leader after two races. He won last week in Argentina after 2015 champion Jorge Lorenzo of Moviestar Yamaha crashed out early."I made a mistake," Lorenzo said. "Instead of having patience ... I pushed too much and I crashed. It happened. Nobody is perfect."Lorenzo has shown he can fight back from early miscues: He missed the podium the first three races of 2015, then stormed to four consecutive victories before finally securing the title in the final race. But the Circuit of the Americas may not be the place to start another rally: Lorenzo's best finish in Austin was third in 2013.Lorenzo declined questions about his future with Yamaha. The three-time champion from Spain has been linked to a possible move after this season to Ducati, which hasn't won since the 2010 Australian Grand Prix. That would mean bumping one of Ducati's current riders, Andrea Dovizioso and Andrea Iannone, both Italians, off the team.The Ducati riders missed a chance for a double podium finish in Argentina when they bumped and crashed on the penultimate corner. Iannone, who has crashed out the first two races this season, took the blame for the collision and said he hopes it doesn't affect his position with the team.Iannone has three podium finishes in four seasons in MotoGP. Dovizioso has one victory and 30 podium finishes since 2008, including second place at the 2016 season-opener in Qatar.After the Argentina wipeout, Dovisioso picked up his bike and walked it across the finish line for 13th and Iannone was forced to retire within sight of the checkered flag. He also was given a three-spot penalty on Sunday's starting grid."A very bad start this season," Iannone said. "The better way is looking forward ... It was my mistake. It was very difficult. He's my teammate and we go down."
Marquez predicted the Ducati team still could challenge for a win this week. Despite his dominance the three previous years, Marquez has complained of acceleration problems through offseason testing and the first two races, which could limit Honda's typically strong performance coming out the circuit's tight turns and its ability to pull away on the -mile (1,200 meters) back straight."It's not fast enough," Marquez said. "Ducati will be right there." Continue reading the main story
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
