What do you think about online privacy? Share your views | Technology | The Guardian
What do you think about online privacy? Share your views
Wed like to hear your views on online privacy. Share your perspectives with GuardianWitness
What does online privacy look like in the 21st century?
Over the past few decades, we have seen enormous changes in how we think about privacy. The emergence of social networks, rise of smartphones, development of cloud computing and growth of location tracking have all affected, in one way or another, how we draw the line between what is private and what is public.
But what exactly is privacy? The lawyers Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis defined it in 1890 as the right to be let alone. What does the word mean in todays world? With the imminent expansion of the internet of things, a number of recent high-profile hacks, and with an increasing amount of apps and services needing personal data to function properly, how do we picture our privacy? Do we care about it?
Edward Snowdens revelations about the NSA and GCHQ have exposed how vulnerable our data is to snooping, but are we happy to trade off online privacy for online security? Are we also happy for private companies to use our personal data if it means they can make better products and services?
What do you think about privacy in the 21st century? Weve put a few questions below for you to share your thoughts. Wed also like you to share a photo that you think represents privacy in the 21st century.
To what extent are you happy for the government to monitor your data if it means greater protection from serious crime?
To what degree do you trust private companies to keep your data secure?
Where do you draw the line between what is and isnt private?
You can share your views with GuardianWitness by clicking on the blue Contribute buttons on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the Guardian app and search for GuardianWitness assignments. All contributions published on GuardianWitness will be public so you can share your views with other people, however if you prefer to share your responses anonymously, then please use the form below.
We will be using the most interesting contributions in our reporting.
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
