Yelp, TinyCo Settle FTC Charges Their Apps Improperly
Collected Childrens Personal Information | Federal Trade Commission
What You Need to Know About the Office of the Inspector General
Notice Concerning Nondisclosure Policies, Forms, or Agreements
EnforcementCases and ProceedingsCase Document Search
Banned Mortgage Relief and Debt Relief Companies and People
Premerger Notification ProgramStatute, Rules and Formal Interpretations
US Submissions to OECD and Other International Competition Fora
Competition & Consumer Protection Authorities Worldwide
I Would Like To...Submit a Consumer Complaint to the FTC
You are hereHome  News & Events  Press Releases  Yelp, TinyCo Settle FTC Charges Their Apps Improperly
Yelp, TinyCo Settle FTC Charges Their Apps Improperly
Review Site and Mobile App Developer to Pay Hundreds of Thousands in Penalties
Online review site Yelp, Inc., and mobile app developer TinyCo, Inc., agreed to settle separate Federal Trade Commission charges that they improperly collected childrens information in violation of the Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act, or COPPA, Rule. Under the terms of the settlements, Yelp will pay a $450,000 civil penalty, while TinyCo will pay a $300,000 civil penalty.
As people  especially children  move more of their lives onto mobile devices, its important that they have the same consumer protections when theyre using an app that they have when theyre on a website, said Jessica Rich, director of the FTCs Bureau of Consumer Protection. Companies should take steps as they build and test their apps to make sure that childrens information wont be collected without a parents consent.
COPPA requires that companies collecting information about children under 13 online follow a number of steps to ensure that childrens information is protected, including clearly disclosing how the information is used directly to parents and seeking verifiable parental consent before collecting any information from a child.
The FTCs complaint against Yelp alleges that, from 2009 to 2013, the company collected personal information from children through the Yelp app without first notifying parents and obtaining their consent. When consumers registered for Yelp through the app on their mobile device, according to the complaint, they were asked to provide their date of birth during the registration process.
According to the complaint, several thousand registrants provided a date of birth showing they were under 13 years old, and Yelp collected information from them including, for example, their name, e-mail address, and location, as well as any information that they posted on Yelp.
The FTCs complaint alleges that Yelp failed to follow the COPPA Rules requirements, even though it knew  based on registrants birth dates  that children were registering for Yelp through the mobile app. According to the complaint, Yelp failed to implement a functional age-screen in its apps, thereby allowing children under 13 to register for the service, despite having an age-screen mechanism on its website.In addition, the complaint alleges that Yelp did not adequately test its apps to ensure that users under the age of 13 were prohibited from registering.
In addition to the $450,000 civil penalty, under the terms of its settlement with the FTC, Yelp must delete information it collected from consumers who stated they were 13 years of age or younger at the time they registered for the service, except in cases where the company can prove to the FTC that the consumers were actually older than 13.
The settlement will also require the company to comply with COPPA requirements in the future and submit a compliance report to the FTC in one year outlining its COPPA compliance program.
The FTCs complaint against TinyCo alleges that many of the companys popular apps, which were downloaded more than 34 million times across the major mobile app stores, targeted children. Among the apps named in the complaint are Tiny Pets, Tiny Zoo, Tiny Monsters, Tiny Village and Mermaid Resort. The complaint alleges that the apps, through their use of themes appealing to children, brightly colored animated characters and simple language, were directed at children under 13 and thus, TinyCo was subject to the COPPA Rule.
Many of TinyCos apps included an optional feature that collected e-mail addresses from users, including children younger than age 13. In some of the companys apps, by providing an e-mail address, users obtained extra in-game currency that could be used to buy items within the game or speed up gameplay. The FTCs complaint alleges that the company failed to follow the steps required under the Rule related to the collection of childrens personal information.
In addition to the $300,000 civil penalty, under the terms of its settlement with the FTC, TinyCo is required to delete the information it collected from children under 13. The settlement will also require the company to comply with COPPA requirements in the future and submit a compliance report to the FTC in one year outlining its compliance with the order.
The Commission vote to authorize the staff to refer the complaints to the Department of Justice, and to approve the proposed stipulated orders, was 5-0. The DOJ filed the complaints and proposed stipulated orders on behalf of the Commission in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California on Sept. 16, 2014. The proposed stipulated orders are subject to court approval.
NOTE: The Commission authorizes the filing of a complaint when it has reason to believe that the law has been or is being violated, and it appears to the Commission that a proceeding is in the public interest. Stipulated orders have the force of law when signed by the District Court judge.
The Federal Trade Commission works for consumers to prevent fraudulent, deceptive, and unfair business practices and to provide information to help spot, stop, and avoid them. To file a complaint in English or Spanish, visit the FTCs online Complaint Assistant or call 1-877-FTC-HELP (1-877-382-4357). The FTC enters complaints into Consumer Sentinel, a secure, online database available to more than 2,000 civil and criminal law enforcement agencies in the U.S. and abroad. The FTCs website provides free information on a variety of consumer topics. Like the FTC on Facebook, follow us on Twitter, and subscribe to press releases for the latest FTC news and resources.
Blog: Parents have power over companies cAPPtivating kids
FTC case against Yelp shows that COPPA isnt just for kids sites
Our Media Resources library provides one-stop collections of materials on numerous issues in which the FTC has been actively engaged. These pages are especially useful for members of the media.
