Tech giants warn cybersecurity bill could undermine users' privacy | Technology | The Guardian
Tech giants warn cybersecurity bill could undermine users' privacy
Facebook, Google and Yahoo argue Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act under Senate review could cause collateral damage to innocent third parties
Cisa will allow companies to share internet users personal information with the US government.
Last modified on Thursday 15 October 2015 15.01EDT
Some of the biggest names in tech including Google, Yahoo, Facebook and T-Mobile have come out against a controversial cybersecurity bill, arguing that it fails to protect users privacy and could cause collateral harm to innocent third parties.
In an open letter published on Thursday the Computer and Communications Industry Association (CCIA), a trade group representing those and several other major tech firms including eBay and RedHat, came out staunchly against the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (Cisa).
The bill, which has bipartisan support, would, among other things, allow companies to share users personal information with the US government in exchange for immunity from regulators and the Freedom of Information Act. It will receive a Senate vote later this month.
CCIA is unable to support Cisa as it is currently written, wrote Bijan Madhani, policy counsel for CCIA. Cisas prescribed mechanism for sharing of cyber threat information does not sufficiently protect users privacy or appropriately limit the permissible uses of information shared with the government. In addition, the bill authorizes entities to employ network defense measures that might cause collateral harm to the systems of innocent third parties.
Not everyone in the Senate is sold, despite a presidential endorsement, and news of the CCIAs opposition was welcome to the bills opponents in the legislature.
CCIA represents some of the biggest names in tech and their opposition to the current version of Cisa is a shot in the arm for those of us fighting for privacy and security, said Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon. These companies understand it is untenable and bad for business to enact flawed cybersecurity policies that infringe on users privacy while doing little to prevent sophisticated hacks. By coming out against this bill, CCIAs members, including Google, Yahoo, and Facebook, have made the clear statement that they have their users backs.
The bill was originally pitched as a way to permit tech companies to share anonymized user information with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). DHS has itself come out against the bill, since it would then be compelled to share the information on to relevant entities, widely assumed to include the NSA and FBI.
Cisa has raised concerns about surveillance among industry experts.
Members of Congress should pay attention: nobody wants this bill, wrote Evan Greer, policy director of activist group Fight for the Future, which has long opposed the bill. Not the public, not security experts, and not even the industry its supposed to protect. The safety of internet users personal information is more fragile than ever, if Congress decides to make matters worse, everyone will know it was the result of ignorance and corruption.
Lauren Weinstein, whose history with technology and privacy goes back to Arpanet (the internets great-grandfather) at UCLA, said he didnt necessarily believe that the government had anything nefarious planned for the data  he just didnt believe they could competently secure it, either.
The government has shown a striking inability to secure their own house, Weinstein said. We see this again and again and again. You know the recent devastating cases  the Office of Personnel Management case had some of the most critical information people ever give the government. You cant get your biometrics back  its a real hassle to get your fingerprints changed.
Indeed, there is concern among data experts that simply putting multiple corporate data sets in the same place could be used to create comprehensive profiles containing personally identifying information. It could even do so by accident.
Elaborate user information is organized  primarily by advertisers  so that users are split up into multiple categories: one person may be in a group scheduled to receive ads for cat lovers, a group likely to change toothpaste brands, and a group of Honda owners. But the companies take precautions to make sure they dont accidentally create individual digital dossiers when theyre simply trying to serve ads.
[Marketers] are [compiling user data] in a so-called clean room where Im not touching the data and an independent party doesnt have access to the data, explained Jon Mandel, whose company PrecisionDemand (since sold to AOL) worked with television advertisers. Its all in a clean room, its all on the up and up, nobody has everything so nobody can figure it all out. The problem, Mandel said, is that one bad actor  or even a curious actor  can reverse the process giving them unprecedented access to personal information.
Some companies that would be eligible to participate have come out in favor of the bill, notably Experian, the data broker that recent lost 15m sets of T-Mobile customer data. Experian supports legislation that would facilitate greater sharing of cyber threat information among appropriate private and government entities, the company said in August. Congress has the responsibility to balance the need for facilitating greater information sharing, and thereby enhancing cybersecurity, with important consumer privacy concerns.
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
