A sordid orgy and why Max Mosley can't be allowed to erase history | Daily Mail Online
A sordid orgy and why Max Mosley can't be allowed to erase history
A sordid orgy and why Max Mosley can't be allowed to erase history
More than any man on earth, the former Formula One racing chief Max Mosley is trying to rewrite the rules that have governed the workings of a free Press for many years, not just in this country but throughout Europe.His latest assault is on the internet giant Google. He has been trying to persuade a French court that the web engine should be prevented from directing users to pictures of a private orgy that he organised five years ago.The photographs, involving Mr Mosley and five consensual prostitutes, were originally published by the now defunct News of the World in March 2008. It alleged that Mr Mosley had been engaged in a sick Nazi orgy.
Mr Mosley has been trying to persuade a French court that Google should be prevented from directing users to pictures of a private orgy that he organised five years ago
Google's response to Mr Mosley is that the application of filters would amount to a form of censorship
To the astonishment of many, three months later Mr Mosley won damages of 60,000 in the High Court from the paper, which was held to have invaded his privacy. Although German was spoken, uniforms worn and blood was shed by Mosley during the proceedings, and despite heads apparently being inspected as though for lice, the learned judge declared there was no evidence that this had been a Nazi orgy.Mr Justice Eady ruled that if it had been a Nazi orgy he might have found in favour of the newspaper, since Mr Mosley was a public figure of sorts whose suitability for his high-profile job would have been seriously called into question by such antics. As there was no such proof, the paper was required to pay damages and costs.Buoyed by this significant (and to my mind irrational) verdict, Mr Mosley set about trying to restrict the activities of the Press. In 2011 he argued in the European Court of Human Rights that prior notification should be compulsory for newspapers, to give their targets time to obtain an injunction preventing publication.
(left to right) Woman D, Woman B and Woman C, above and a fourth, Woman A, all denied there was any Nazi element to the orgy at the trial against the News of The World
In other words, a politician or businessman caught doing something wrong could try to persuade a sympathetic judge to kill off the story. Mercifully, the Court had a fit of good sense, and seven of its judges ruled that the right to freedom of expression would be at risk if pre-notification was compulsory.But Mr Mosley was, and is, a man obsessed. One way or another the Press must be curbed. His lawyers have just argued in front of French judges that Google should apply filters so that people would be unable to access photographs of his orgy.
If Mr Mosley had his way, it would not be long before George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four became one step closer to reality
The unwary might suppose that this is perfectly reasonable. If the News of the World was, according to an English judge, guilty of invading Mr Mosleys privacy when it originally published photographs of his orgy, why should those photographs be available on the net?Googles response is that the application of filters would amount to a form of censorship. Access to news sites carrying the pictures, or to innocuous articles containing the images, might be blocked. In short, the prohibition would extend much further than the photographs.If anything, Google is understating the case. Should Mr Mosley get his way, the consequence could be the rewriting or erasing of chunks of history. Whether or not his privacy was invaded, the photographs exist and no one has challenged their authenticity. They amount to a historical record of a sordid event which indubitably took place. Decent people might wish that it hadnt, but it did.These images continue to exist not only on the net but in libraries and private homes. If they were wiped out on the internet  actually, they physically cant be, but access to them can be denied  they would logically have to be destroyed wherever else they might survive. That sounds like a police state.If Mr Mosley wins this battle, his next step might be to request that any articles which so much as referred to the pictures of his orgy, or the orgy itself, should also be destroyed, possibly including this one.
Mr Mosley, pictured here with F1 models in Barcelona, faced calls for his resignation when the story was published
want to rewrite their pasts would also apply to have access blocked to
discreditable information about them on the internet. In fact, its
European Unions highest court is considering whether Spains privacy
regulator may have overstepped the mark when trying to force Google to
remove unflattering search results for numerous citizens  for example, a
doctor who claimed that a 1991 news article about a dispute with a
patient had damaged his business.Of course, libellous or untrue articles can, and should, be taken off the net. Google says it has removed hundreds of such pages relating to Mr Mosley following requests from him.Equally, the search engine should do much more to block access to extreme pornographic websites. But such a welcome move does not involve the rewriting of history to which Mr Mosleys innovations would lead us.
Steve Coogan, Hugh Grant and Max Mosley give evidence to the Joint Committee on Privacy and Injunctions: Though he has denied giving donations to Hacked Off, the pressure group campaigning for tougher regulation of British newspapers, he is a supporter of the organisation
long before George Orwells Nineteen Eighty-Four became one step closer
to reality. In that book, Winston Smith is employed as a clerk in the
Ministry of Truth, rewriting historical documents to match the
STEPHEN GLOVER: The irony is, Cameron's obduracy on foreign aid proves the Tories are STILL the 'nasty' party
STEPHEN GLOVER: Why have the Tories got it in for buy-to-let landlords?
STEPHEN GLOVER: A married celebrity (with children) who courts the Press has a threesome. So what right does a judge have to cover up his hypocrisy?
STEPHEN GLOVER: Daft police, an asinine stunt and the question: Is it time to put Top Gear out of its misery?
STEPHEN GLOVER:I'd be amazed if the Queen wasn't Eurosceptic - and good for her if she had a pop at Cleggie
STEPHEN GLOVER: Tony Blair's deranged, messianic egotism laid bare the dangerous flaws in our democracy
STEPHEN GLOVER: Why I no longer give to charities whose bosses take home fat cat salaries
STEPHEN GLOVER: Why DO so many Lefties and luvvies loathe this country?
STEPHEN GLOVER: This vengeful persecution of whistleblowers in the NHS is yet another 'triumph' for Lord Leveson
I exaggerate? I dont think so. Mr Mosley does not like freedom much.
At a meeting of a Commons select committee in March he shocked
observers. He suggested that access to foreign-based websites could be
blocked if they flouted tough new rules that might be introduced by
British regulators. Thats what they do in dictatorships such as Iran
and China.Its surely no accident that Mr Mosley should have started his assault on freedom in France, a country with ferocious privacy laws in which newspapers are traditionally cowed by politicians and the courts.Until shortly before his death, French newspapers did not dare reveal the truth about the war record, private life and financial misdemeanours of former president Francois Mitterrand.For example, there was scant discussion of the period during the early years of World War II when he supported Petains pro-German Vichy regime, and allegations that he protected Nazi collaborators who helped deport French Jews to death camps were also downplayed. It was only in the months before his death that the Press revealed that Mitterrand had fathered an illegitimate child by a secret mistress.The French court will deliver its verdict on Mr Mosleys latest legal challenge, subject to appeal, on October 21. Meanwhile, he is also challenging Google in the German courts. He is aiming for Europe-wide controls on the web engine  and of course he has lots of money.Though he has denied giving donations to Hacked Off, the pressure group campaigning for tougher regulation of British newspapers, he is a supporter of the organisation and has reportedly financed hacking victims lawyers. Will Hacked Off now condemn him for wishing to censor the internet? Of course not. What Mr Mosley yearns for, Hacked Off also wants.He is a very wealthy man who organised a sordid orgy which the News of the World could have justly described as German-themed. Nevertheless, he won his case. Meanwhile, that newspaper has been closed down for unconnected reasons.But that is not enough for him. His war of vengeance against the Press continues. It as if newspapers must suffer because he has been damaged.He blames everyone except himself. It seems never to occur to Max Mosley that he may have acted unwisely or wrongly. In trying to bury his unwholesome past, this peculiar man would, if he could, cheerfully dismantle all our freedoms.
Incredibly cute moment a baby sees his mum for the first...
Dr Pimple Popper removes huge blackheads from man's back
Singer carries on show after cobra bite before dying onstage
Divers are amazed as they spot a surprise submarine
Pursuit driver does 'donuts' on rainy Hollywood streets
Graphic warning: Cop fatally shoots woman with axe in TN
Hillary Clinton has trouble swiping her Metrocard at subway
Police release video of suspect in murder of Haruka Weiser
Bill Clinton criticizes Black Lives Matter protesters
Police officer bodyslams middle school girl, knocks her out
'People fall asleep in corners and cry in the bathrooms,...
Cops hunt bike-riding suspect after freshman dance student,...
Two students hospitalised after their necks were cut during...
That's gotta Bern! Hillary tries to show 'real New Yorker'...
Chuckle that says: I can see you now Mummy! Heartwarming...
Welcome to the Voyeurs' Inn: Colorado motel owner secretly...
Man has re-constructive surgery on his intestines after...
South Carolina house with major design flaw baffles the...
EXCLUSIVE: Model girlfriend of One Direction's Niall Horan...
EXCLUSIVE: Porn star James Deen swaggers off another porn...
Most L.A. car chase ever! Hollywood Boulevard comes to...
Male Norwegian politician raped by asylum seeker says he...
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Nicole Kidman, 48, displays her washboard abs in floral bikini as she makes a sultry emergence from the sea in Sydney
TOWIE's Danielle Armstrong hints she's back together with James Lock as they leave charity fundraiser together
'I felt horrible': Geordie Shore's Holly Hagan silences weight loss critics as she shares airbrush-free bikini body transformation over just 21 days
Pregnant supermodel Bar Refaeli flaunts her blossoming baby bump in a chic black bikini as she soaks up the sun on an idyllic beach break
Here come the girls: Stephanie Waring leads glamorous Hollyoaks co-stars Kirsty-Leigh Porter and Jessica Fox for Ladies Day at Aintree
Festival FRENZY! Forget Glastonbury - from music to art to food and even BEE-KEEPING, here's our round-up of the best
PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Doting mother Helen Flanagan covers up in a loose floral dress as she cradles her baby girl Matilda on shopping trip
'It was a scary ordeal for them both': Jeremy McConnell hospitalised after boozy night out with girlfriend Stephanie Davis
'It was chaos': Kocktails With Khloe 'cancelled due to drama behind the scenes... as it's claimed staff were fed up of Kardashian's desire to call the shots'
Newly-engaged Danielle Lloyd glows while rocking casual tracksuit on visit to wedding dress shop with fianc Michael O'Neill
Making his own fortune now! Rob Kardashian 'is being courted by weight loss companies' as he hopes to get down from 250lbs to 200lbs by summer
Coleen Rooney shows off her natural beauty as she goes make-up free to run errands after suffering rare fashion fail at the races
Where are they NOW? As Britain's Got Talent returns to our screens, we reveal the winners who hit the big time (and the ones who quickly faded away)
'She was devastated': TV presenter Kirsty Gallacher, 40, and rugby star Danny Cipriani, 28, 'split over age gap'
From feta cheese to their beautiful people and, of course, humous! 15 reasons we all owe our happiness to GREECE
Everything's coming up roses! Stunning actress Olivia Culpo is pretty as a petal in white frock at Birdcage launch in NYC
Oh Lordy Shore! Marnie Simpson puts on a VERY cheeky display as she crawls into a car in sheer thong jumpsuit after fundraiser
'He says his arms are bigger': Dan Osborne shares sweet snap with cheeky son Teddy as he imitates his fitness fanatic father
Shaken not stirred! Ferne McCann slurps on an espresso martini as she presents her This Morning segment
Braless Bella Thorne almost risks a wardrobe malfunction as she reveals her underboob in a floaty crop top during day at the beach
'Really excited!' Big Brother's Harry Amelia and Nick Henderson confirm they are expecting their first child together... despite splitting one month ago
Busty Sam Faiers is the picture of holiday bliss as she soaks up the sun in glamorous metallic shades and a bikini top
It's a boy! Anne Hathaway welcomes a son with husband Adam Shulman as she reveals very traditional name for her newborn
Well she has a had a 6k makeover! Geordie Shore's Holly Hagan flashes major sideboob as she's asked for ID at the nightclub door
Say my name! Olivia Palermo styles up her workout gear with monogrammed red satin jacket while stepping out in NYC
Queen of style: Her Majesty's historic dresses will be unveiled to the public to mark her 90th birthday - including embellished ballgowns with plenty of bling
Harry Potter actor is ordered to pay his former agent 210,000 - just hours after child star's hilarious tweet about how he blew all his earnings on fast living
Rise of the Rooneys-in-law: As Wayne and Coleen's upwardly mobile mums turn on the glamour.... how their lives have transformed after children's success
Lauren Silverman looks chic in an elegant navy pencil dress as she and Simon Cowell head out to dinner after American Idol final
Kerry Katona pictured kissing convicted murderer Kevin Lane on night out in London after blasting claims they were dating
So sweet! Kourtney Kardashian and Scott Disick put on united front as they treat kids Penelope and Mason to ice-cream feast
Bella Hadid puts on a leggy display in a thigh-skimming mini skirt and chic black halter top as she pays tribute to 'mentor' Naomi Campbell at book launch
He really is dead (no really)! Jon Snow's death is CONFIRMED in Game Of Thrones synopsis ahead of new series premiere
What a boob! Busty Casey Batchelor almost spills out of her daring plunging dress and black bra combination as she attends charity bash
Paying an arm and a leg! Mariah Carey 'shells out $70million as she insures her trademark pins and vocal chords'
EXCLUSIVE: Model girlfriend of One Direction's Niall Horan has 'abandoned' her 7-year-old son to pursue fame and fortune, claims her ex-husband
Who framed Harrison Ford? Police investigate bogus report of actor's arrest planted in online records
Pregnant Nicky Hilton draws attention to her baby bump in a figure-hugging miniskirt as she joins sister Paris for Naomi Campbell's book launch
'Duty calls!' Bikini-clad mum-of-three Kristin Cavallari shares a photo before pumping breast milk
Boho babe AnnaLynne McCord goes make-up free as she works a floaty maxi-dress and fringed suede jacket at LAX
Busty Imogen Thomas flaunts her curves in a series of smouldering swimwear snaps to promote her latest range
Khloe Kardashian 'can't believe' Rob did not tell family about surprise engagement to Blac Chyna and is 'furious at the lack of respect'
'I've been known to get down': Katharine McPhee unleashes her VERY sexy side as she puts on a saucy performance on Lip Sync Battle
Kanye West shows sensitive side as he plants sweet kiss on North while they enjoy family fun on ski trip with Kim Kardashian
Youthful Goldie Hawn lovingly holds long-term beau Kurt Russell by the arm as they keep the romance alive with dinner date
Father of X Factor star Ella Henderson arrives in court to face fraud allegations in three-week trial
Is he Sorry now he put water all over the stage? Justin Bieber slips HARD onto his bum in artificial rain sequence during Kansas City concert
A role to die for! Ashton Kutcher's older sisterTausha follows in his acting footsteps as she appears in The Walking Dead finale
Katie Price and disgraced footballer Adam Johnson's sister set up a play date for Princess and his nephew
Just a $25m fixer-upper! Taylor Swift starts extensive renovations of her just purchased historic mansion
Foreign Office mandarins 'asked the Indian authorities to take scaffolding down from the Taj Mahal so it didn't ruin photographs when William and Kate visit'
Jacqueline Jossa swamps slim form in baggy jumpsuit as she and Dan Osborne enjoy rare date night at charity bash... after postponing their wedding
Superfit Kate Hudson displays her ski prowess as she hits the slopes with her sons during family break in Colorado
'He was waving a blade about': Professor Green reveals his filming was interrupted by a knife-wielding stranger inGloucestershire
Going out with a bang! Jennifer Lopez steals the show in sparkling gown as stars turn out in force for American Idol finale
Simon Cowell surprises Randy Jackson and Paula Abdul for reunion of original judges panel in American Idol final episode
Who knew they were fans? Newlyweds Jerry Hall and Rupert Murdoch join revellers at the last ever America Idol in LA after jetting in for the farewell show
Stylish Jennifer Lopez switches into mum mode as she jets off with her two children... after dazzling the crowds with American Idol performance
Courteney Cox looks chic in skinny jeans... after 'reuniting with Johnny McDaid' amid claims she'll move to Ireland to work on their relationship
'I'm a wild mom!' Kate Hudson admits she sometimes feels 'like a bad mother' as she pens essay about juggling work and family
I got this mom! Two-year-old North skis for the first time as she gets a lesson on the slopes from Kim Kardashian
She's no ice maiden! Kourtney Kardashian cackles with joy as she joins daughter Penelope on the rink for skating session
'We're good!' Iggy Azalea wows in revealing mesh top and skirt on Ellen as she insists there's no drama with fiance Nick Young
Naomi Campbell flashes her real AND fake boobs... as she celebrates launch of two-volume coffee table book costing 1,244
Showing Chris what he's missing! Bikini-clad Karrueche Tran sizzles as she launches a festival-inspired range just in time for Coachella
'We saw everything that I had to offer!' Lena Dunham talks about THAT Basic Instinct scene on Girls... and admits even she found it 'shocking'
Victoria's Secret star Lily Aldridge is greeted by fans as she steps out in skin-tight leather leggings at LAX
'Simon usually gets his own back on David with a horrible comment about his divorce': Amanda Holden reveals Cowell's mean jab at Walliams
PICTURED: Millie Mackintosh and ex Hugo Taylor put on a cosy display before he stays the night at her home... weeks after her split from Professor Green
TOWIE's Kate Wright and Danielle Armstrong flash their toned tums in crop tops as they show off their contrasting styles at charity benefit
She Ain't Your Mama!' Jennifer Lopez turns up the heat with TWO sizzlingly sexy performances... as she bids farewell to American Idol
Carrie Underwood takes the plunge in return to American Idol as past champion joins Keith Urban for duet during farewell finale
Gone in a Heartbeat! Melissa George wears preppy blazer as she jets out of Sydney with baby Solal following whirlwind week promoting new drama
Big stars Kristen Wiig and Matt Damon prepare to be shrunk as they film comedy Downsizing on a rainy day
Billy Ray Cyrus plays washed-up country star in hilarious new trailer for upcoming CMT show Still The King
Gone to the dark side! Lucy Hale goes back to brunette after brief spell as a blonde... as she sizzles in plunging outfit at Pretty Little Liars event
'I don't believe Amy is plus size': Editor-in-chief defends decision to feature size 10-12 star alongside much bigger women in Glamour's 'Chic at any size' edition
'Imagine the courage it takes': US Vice President Joe Biden praises Lady Gaga for her bravery... as singer performs at rally
'It's the incredible love affair of my life': Sarah Ferguson talks about Prince Andrew, and why they are an 'extraordinary example of a unified family'
Just peachy! Ashley Greene dazzles in a coral flared dress for a screening of The Jungle Book in New York City
Thrice as nice! Leggy Alesha Dixon showcases her slender physique as she sports THREE outfits in one day
Taylor Swift protects herself from LA rain with a hooded leather biker jacket as she shops at Saint Laurent Paris luxury store
Sexy Little Liars! Shay Mitchell flashes her toned tum in bra and skirt as Ashley Benson wears leather look at ABC Freeform event
Simply stylish! Kerry Washington wows in a striking black caped dress at the New York special screening of her upcoming HBO film Confirmation
'I'm happy to go back to Stars Hollow': Melissa McCarthy confirms she IS returning for Gilmore Girls revival... and promises it will be 'amazing'
'He's having regular sex': David Walliams playfully claims Simon Cowell is happier thanks to his relationship with Lauren Silverman
In bloom! Girls star Allison Williams wows in a black low-cut top and floral maxi skirt for the DVF Awards in New York City
PICTURED: Inside Chris Hemsworth and Elsa Pataky's former Santa Monica pad, which 'sold for $1.7 million after buying the two-bed home for $1.09 million'
Olivia Wilde, Rose Byrne andEmmy Rossum matching in black ensembles to celebrate Target's latest collaboration with Marimekko
Smitten Megan McKenna looks chic in a smart suit for glam date night with TOWIE beau Pete Wicks at charity benefit
Ouch! Demi Lovato trips onstage in front of 16K audience but quickly laughs it off during WE Day California event
'It won't hit me 'til I say goodnight!' Ryan Seacrest admits he's having trouble coming to terms with the end of American Idol
Caitlyn Jenner claims she told Kris about her gender identity 'early on' in their marriage... but the momager insists she 'never' knew
SPOILER ALERT: American Idol crowns final winner ever as Fox singing competition show concludes after 15 seasons
'It was exploited': Michelle Rodriguez says comments she is jealous her Fast And Furious co-star Paul Walker died first were used 'out of context'
Blushing beauty! Home And Away star Ada Nicodemou looks glamorous in soft beige and cream fitted ensemble
'Leopard overload!' Khloe Kardashian and baby sister Kendall Jenner wear matching animal print in touching throwback snap
Suddenly shy Kylie Jenner dodges red carpet at premiere of Tyga's new movie amid messy family drama over Rob and Blac Chyna's engagement
Before she was Puma's girl! Kylie Jenner rocks Adidas tracksuit in throwback with sister Kendall... as she heads out to lunch with her besties
Tie-dye for! Zoe Kravitz shows off her fabulous figure in hippie-inspired halter top while running errands in West Hollywood
He's Conan the Barbarian Jr! Arnold Schwarzenegger's love child emerges looking just like the muscle man during his heyday
PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Janice Dickinson looks frail as she is pushed in a wheelchair after breast cancer diagnosis
'I think we're at the end of it': Bethenny Frankel reveals her long-running and bitter divorce is finally coming to a close
Fairytale sequel? Not when Snow White's been given the chop! The Huntsman is a great spectacle but not much else, says BRIAN VINER
Coleen Rooney suffers a fashion fail in tangerine caped lace dress and glowing tan as she continues her 30th celebrations in a private box at Aintree
Hard to swallow.. the Britain's Got Talent act who's been on the show five times already... and even won the Russian version
'Oh and this happened': Hollyoaks star Ross Adams announces his engagement to handsome partner Philip Crusham
Hair she is! Rita Ora showcases her bright yellow cornrows as she sports casual ensemble at LAX
How the Elle does she do it? Model Macpherson, 52, shows off her flawless line-free visage as she attends lavish charity luncheon in Miami
Daddy's little Rover! Soccer-mad Louis Tomlinson introduces his 11-week-old baby son Freddie to football
BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Kylie and Guy plan a scorching reunion
Guy Pearce and Kylie Minogue are about to become neighbours again
An Unbreakable contract! Janet Jackson fans denied refund and tickets remain on sale despite singer pulling out of tour as she starts family
This isn't the catwalk! Alyssa Milano shows off her fashionista chops in FOUR frocks as she dashes around New York promoting Project Runway All Stars
'I wish JLo nothing but menopause': Jennifer Lopez slammed by fans for collaborating with Dr Luke... after Kesha accused the producer of rape
Kesha takes her mind off latest legal blow as she goes horse riding with supportive pal Iggy Azalea
Tom Burke played 'bad boy' Dolokhov in BBC TV's midwinter monster hit War & Peace
I took one look at Tom and said, 'That's my daddy!': As Tom Hiddleston stars in a warts and all biopic of Hank Williams, the singer's daughter gives her verdict
All about that Bass! TOWIE star Nicole leaves little to the imagination in plunging semi-sheer dress as she attends charity fundraiser in London
Strictly lovebirds Aljaz Skorjanec and Janette Manrara can't stop smiling as they put on a loving display at Jog-On to Cancer fundraiser
Stevi Ritchie and fiance Chloe-Jasmine Whichello pack on the PDA at charity fundraiser... as singer celebrates signing Japanese record deal
BAZ BAMIGBOYE: Olivier star Denise is high on her stage hits
Denise Gough is currently in Duncan Macmillan's dynamite drama People, Places And Things
Beyonce shines as Elle Canada's 15th anniversary cover girl... and shows off her sculpted physique to promote new line of workout clothing
Jenna Dewan Tatum is on the prowl in grey leopard patterned leggings while heading to lunch in LA
Vogue Williams dazzles in a cleavage baring pale pink dress while Lauren Pope teases a glimpse of her toned midriff at boat bash on the Thames
Can Alexa give M&S fashion a boost? New boss hopes style icon will deliver a 'Twiggy effect' to bolster falling fashion sales
She wasn't Holden on! Amanda suffers an embarrassing slip-up in a yellow bodycon minidress while guest presenting Lorraine
At 71, Angela Rippon's still got the pins that made Little Ern swoon: Christopher Stevens reviews last night's TV
'A lady of class wouldn't wear this!' Hilary Duff comes under fire on Instagram after sharing pic of herself wearing VERY short hot pants to do school run
Amy Schumer jokes about 'washboard abs' in throwback snap... as Melissa McCarthy and Lena Dunham join plus-size debate
'I don't want to feel like the fattest one': Jennifer Lawrence says she wants body image in Hollywood to change as she poses topless for magazine shoot
Going Rogue! Ashley Greene is feeling blue in matching shirt and trousers as she promotes her TV show
Practical joker! Ruby Rose continues to prank co-star Nina Dobrev on set xXx: The Return Of Xander Cage
'I love bathing suits!' Kim Zolciak displays her curves in a string bikini as she shares more envy-inducing vacation snaps
School-run mums reinvent girl power: All Saints are flying high with their latest album Red Flag, says Adrian Thrills
Girls have so many 'notches in their belts': Men are scared to death of today's sex mad ladettes, says stage star Maureen Lipman
Suits you! Braless Gal Gadot cuts a chic figure in fitted black trouser suit as she joins co-star Kevin Costner at Criminal premiere in London
Picture Perfect! Anna Kendrick shows off her long legs as she makes an early start to promote new film Mr Right in New York
'You know when you know!' Cameron Diaz opens up about marrying Benji Madden just two months after they met... as she poses at book signing
Myleene Klass slips into a wetsuit as she enjoys an aquatic adventure with daughter Ava during girls' holiday in Mauritius
'Terrifying, but I love it': TOWIE's Ferne McCann makes her musical theatre debut in Gatsby musical
'Vernon Kay is a Z-lister compared to him': Sext scandal model Rhian Sugden's 'affair with Hollywood Lothario to be revealed in tell-all book'
Top of the crops! Miranda Kerr looks effortlessly good as she flashes her toned tummy in a short sweater and jeans
Bella Thorne shows off her toned stomach in a boob tube as she promotes her new film Ratchet And Clank
'Get out of here. It's so gross!' Jennifer Lawrence reveals how Emma Stone insisted on taking care of her as she spent the night vomiting after an Adele concert
What a couple of Jokers! Jack Nicholson's son Ray shows he inherited his father's iconic grin as they sit courtside at basketball game
Charlize Theron celebrates new Fast 8 role at WE Day in LA... after complaining she's lost jobs for being 'pretty'
Judge in 50 cent's bankruptcy case bans smartphones from courtroom after rapper posted a picture posing with wads of cash DURING the hearing
Keeping it classy! Caitlyn Jenner shows off her figure as she channels old Hollywood glamour in an elegant black corset for new MAC lipstick campaign
PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Ready to face the music? Madonna finally arrives back in London as she plans to 'get estranged son Rocco Ritchie back in school'
Models with 'the best bodies in the world' - including Miranda Kerr, and Lily Aldridge - strip down and dance around to showcase spring's hottest denim trends
Vicky Pattison hints that she's living with ex-TOWIE star Mario Falcone as she calls him 'roomie' while at dinner together in Essex
'Shimmy shimmy shimmy!' Sam Faiers shows off her dance skills in bikini and sheer shirt as she enjoys idyllic holiday with Paul Knightley and baby son
Brooklyn Beckham showcases the results of his pull-up sessions in a motif vest top on shopping trip inBeverly Hills
Gigi Hadid gets personal! The model can't get enough of customized outerwear and FEMAIL has the lowdown on how you can tailor-make your own
Amanda Holden flaunts her ample assets in a sexy red strappy dress at BGT launch after wearing playful lipstick dress for Radio One appearance
Come as your Pop Idol? David Walliams hilariously mimics Simon Cowell's signature high-waisted trousers and open shirt look for BGT launch
Amanda Holden displays her toned figure in a red bodycon dress while Alesha Dixon rocks an edgy mesh top at Britain's Got Talent photocall
Bronzed Lauren Hutton shows off her taut abs and toned curves in racy cut-out swimming costume
Georgia 'Toff' Toffolo looks chic in white skinny jeans and furry coat while Jess Woodley keeps it casual in baseball jacket and trainers as they film MIC
'I considered a vasectomy but Jools said no': Jamie Oliver is 'really excited' about arrival of fifth child despite thinking about having the snip
Little Mix's Perrie Edwards shows off her abs in a crop top and ripped jeans as she steps out in Manchester
Let's go North! Kim Kardashian takes her adventurous daughter snowmobiling in Vail as they don helmets and matching goggles during family ski trip
She's golden! Kourtney Kardashian looks the spitting image of sister Kim as she appears to go TOPLESS in dazzling natural beauty campaign
Kris Jenner praises 'amazing' Scott Disick despite his history of bad boy antics...but is still silent on own son Rob's engagement
Chris Martin looks typically chirpy in a lightning bolt jumper and beanie as he celebrates son Moses's birthday in Peru
'There's no more babies, we're done': Holly Willoughby and Fearne Cotton reveal they don't want to have any more children
Laura Hamilton shows off her toned abs in strapless black bikini as she enjoys play time on the beach with her two children during family break in Mallorca
'What an utterly false comparison!' Viewers blast The One Show's burkini versus bikini debate as models parade around shopping centre in swimwear
Topless Stephanie Davis straddles boyfriend Jeremy McConnell as he holds her in a steamy clinch in intimate Instagram snap
Can't get better than this! Selena Gomez stands out in bold yellow raincoat at WE Day California event in LA before sizzling performance on stage
PICTURE EXCLUSIVE Heidi Klum, 42, puts on a steamy display with boyfriendVito Schnabel, 29, as she shows off her supermodel figure in sexy bikini on the beach
Star Wars Rogue One trailer premieres giving fans first look at franchise's new female rebel hero and the return of Darth Vader
Don't whip your hair with this look! Jaden Smith is pictured wearing $5,000 worth of Cartier Love rings in his DREADLOCKS
Ooh la la! Jaden Smith's model girlfriend Sarah Snyder strips down to 'bondage-y' lace lingerie as she steals the show during Calvin Klein presentation
Shop like Beyonce! As the superstar admits she is crazy in love with Topshop, FEMAIL rounds up the label's chicest pieces
Scarlett Johansson sizzles in sexy fashions for Cosmo as she talks equal pay for women and a former love she hit 'rock bottom' for
'I hate my big boobs!' Kendra Wilkinson talks 'downsizing' after calling the revealing jumpsuit she wore at her reality show premiere a fashion fail
Make-up free Eva Longoria, 41, shows off her ageless complexion as she goes low-key while jetting out of Puerto Rico
'Sleepy heads': Ricky Martin cuddles with his twin sons Matteo and Valentino as they relax on the couch watching TV
One's had an upgrade! Social media-savvy Queen launches her revamped royal website with a page for each member of the family (including Charlotte)
TOWIE's Danielle Armstrong is stressed out as Chloe Sims reveals former flame James Lock admits he still has feelings for her
Danielle Armstrong brushes off her relationship woes as she flaunts her curves ahead of de-stressing Bikram yoga class with Chloe and Georgia
Hat's off to her! Sarah-Jane Crawford shows off her toned abs in monochrome bralet during leisurely beach day in Hollywood
Flying fur-st class! Helen Mirren cuts a chic figure in a glamorous grey stole and skinny jeans as she jets into Heathrow airport
Enjoying some me time! Nicole Murphy dresses down in gym gear as she goes to get a mani-pedi
Not quite The Little Mermaid! Wetsuit-clad Ariel Winter looks a little nervous as she swims with dolphins in the Bahamas
'Ne-Yo said he would get a vasectomy!' Monyetta Shaw reveals regret at getting her tubes tied... as her ex celebrates birth of son with new wife
'This guy brings so much joy to life': Vicki Gunvalson takes comfort in a cuddle from her grandson as she recovers from crash
Make-up free Wendy Williams totes large Louis Vuitton bag while apartment hunting in NYC
Prince Harry enjoys a curry as he chats with soldiers and veterans at Lord Mayor's lunch event with 'unlimited' beer and wine
'Skis on, shirts off': Kate Hudson flaunts her incredible abs as she cheekily lifts up her top while larking around on the slopes during ski break
Geordie Shore wild child Chloe Ferry flaunts her sizable assets in a plunging leotard... after engaging in explicit sex act with Charlotte Crosby
Paris Jackson shows off SECOND tattoo since turning 18 Sunday... amid controversy over her boyfriend's Confederate flag ink
Drummer boyfriend, 26, of Paris Jackson sparks race row over 'Confederate flag' tattoo but claims: 'I wouldn't be dating a black girl if I were a racist'
Leggy Stacey Solomon has a spring in her step as she sports thigh-grazing floral playsuit after TV appearance
Melissa George wows in figure-hugging dress with a spare pair of Louboutin heels as she takes five-month-old son Solal Blanc on tour for Heartbeat
Make-up free Katie Price cosies up to daughter Princess in sweet snap... before trying out bizarre new beauty treatment
Alessandra Ambrosio smoulders in sizzling swimsuit shoot... as she admits posing in lingerie 'felt weirder' after motherhood
An accident waiting to happen? Geordie Shore's Kyle Christie and Holly Hagan take their relationship on the road in new reality show Car Crash Couples
Barefaced beauty Nina Agdal shows off her envy-inducing abs and generous cleavage in a multicoloured crochet bikini
Charlize Theron gets pampered at Mche Salon in Beverly Hills... after lamenting the lack of roles for 'pretty people'
Emily Ratajkowski shows off her VERY svelte physique in crop top and baggy pants as she picks up sunflowers on sunny walk with boyfriend Jeff Magid
Kate Bosworth gets back to city style in flare jeans and trench coat while out in NY after vacation in Hawaiian paradise
Mini yogis! Chris Hemsworth's wife Elsa Pataky flaunts trim figure in a bikini as she shows two-year-old twin sons Tristan and Sasha yoga poses
Perky Popey! Former TOWIE star Lauren Pope draws attention to her ample assets in a nude vest top and chic duster coat
'I'm a man in his mid-30s who's essentially retired':Macaulay Culkin admits he has no plans to return to film or television
Gigi Hadid flaunts her stunning supermodel pins in skintight leather trousers worn with a pink hoodie as she heads to work in NYC
Miranda Kerr keeps it chic in tuxedo jacket and skinny jeans as she parties with Lily Aldridge and the rest of the Victoria's Secret clan at star-studded bash
Rosie Huntington-Whiteley shows off her long lithe legs in skin-tight jeans as she joins handsome fiance Jason Statham for healthy food shop
Braless rapper Eve suffers unfortunate wardrobe malfunction as she spills out of her plunging pastel pink trouser suit
Ashley Roberts cringes as she reveals she once had a sexual dream about 'baby child' Harry Styles during Celebrity Juice appearance
'It would make me uncomfortable ': BGT star Alesha Dixon reveals she would never join X Factor panel because the judges are 'against one another'
EXCLUSIVE 'He's been a s**tbag': Megan McKenna blasts former fiance Jordan Davies for proposing during Ex On The Beach before LYING about the ring's price
'That is hard to say with those teeth': Ruth Langsford mocks Rylan's veneers on This Morning after he struggles to get his words out
Bikini babes unite! Charlotte Crosby flashes her sideboob in low-cut swimsuit as she shares sexy throwback snap of her stunning pals on holiday
Cashing in: Chris Hemsworth and wife Elsa Pataky reportedly make $3.49m PROFIT selling two LA homes after moving their family back to Australia
'What the f*** do you guys do?': Khlo Kardashian describes her family's early career knock backs on Kocktails With Khloe
Brent is back! Ricky Gervais reprises his iconic role as regional manager David in new teaser trailer for The Office spin-off Life On The Road
Mad Men beauty January Jones strips to her underwear and a vest as she flashes pert derriere in a tongue in cheek belfie
Why even skinny women should wear spanx, says KATE GARRAWAY who accidentally flashed hers to millions on TV
'His favourite body part is his widgey': Matthew Wolfenden is mortified by his son's embarrassing answer on Big Star's Little Star - but he wins over fans
Young love: Jaden Smith packs on the PDA with pretty girlfriend Sarah Snyder as they enjoy a day out in NYC
Shirtless Justin Bieber distracts from his new dreadlocks as he pulls his shorts down to reveal his toned abs and Calvins in Instagram snap
'Why am I selfish?' Defiant Tina Malone, 53, says she has no regrets about becoming a mother at fifty and says she would 'do it all again tomorrow'
Tom Hardy takes a trip back in time as the hunk is seen peeping from beneath a tall top hat while filming explosive scenes for Georgian drama Taboo in Kent
Tyga 'not backing down' from custody battle with Blac Chyna over their son... despite supporting her engagement to Rob Kardashian
California dreaming: Kimberley Garner displays her slim figure in a sexy coral bikini as she soaks up the sun in LA
'I'm not bitter, I feel blessed': Caroline Flack hits back at claims she is not speaking to Olly Murs after being axed from The X Factor
Donna Air cosies up to mystery male companion as she leaves the Chiltern Firehouse... amid 'relationship sabbatical' from James Middleton
Paris Hilton shows off her toned stomach in a skimpy floral bra as she strips to her lingerie in sizzling video
Yellow-haired Rita Ora ditches the bra as she shows of plenty of skin in backless orange bodysuit
Davina McCall, 48, displays her incredibly toned figure and cleavage in a sporty bikini while taking a dip in the pool on holiday
He's Never Gonna Give It Up: 80s icon Rick Astley releases comeback single 23 YEARS after retiring from music because he 'fell out of love with it'
Amanda Holden dazzles in a leggy party dress for Michael McIntyre's star-studded birthday bash... as she turns a blind eye to Botox furore
CBB star Angelique 'Frenchy' Morgan and girlfriend Gabi Grecko reveal their ample cleavage in pink bedazzled bras as they don matching outfits
Bowling with the Kardashians! Kim shows off bra in see-through top as she and sisters Kourtney and Khloe enjoy night out on the lanes
'They're awesome entrepreneurs': Lena Dunham says Kim and Co. are great role models... as she slams mag for labelling Amy Schumer 'plus-size'
'I'm sorry I didn't fit into my dress as well as people want me to': Hollyoaks' Sarah George slams body shamers who claimed she looked 'pregnant'
Star Wars Rogue One teaser reveals menacing black Stormtrooper... as Lucasfilm offers sneak peek of upcoming film hours before full trailer
Sofia Richie flashes a hint of her toned tummy as she steps out to run some errands in a casually chic ensemble
Love the way you fly! Rihanna makes a stylish arrival ahead of her ANTI tour gig in Canada as she steps off her private jet in an oversized jacket
Most L.A. car chase ever! Hollywood Boulevard comes to standstill as suspects flee cops in convertible and do donuts before stopping for SELFIES - cheered on by celebrities and people on social media
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
