Is Facebook's Privacy Policy Too Confusing? - US News
The sister of Facebook's founder got tripped up by the privacy settings while posting a private family photo.
Randi Zuckerberg, sister of Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg,
posted a photo to Facebook which subsequently ended up posted to the Twitter account of the marketing director of Vox Mediaand was then visible to her 40,000 followers. Zuckerberg was able to use her status as sister of the founder and former marketing manager for the social networking company to get the photo removed, but the incident raises questions as to whether or not Facebook's privacy guidelines are too confusing.
The family photo posted by Zuckerberg showed up on the newsfeed of Vox Media's Callie Schweitzer because they have a mutual friend, but Zuckerberg did not intend for the photo to become public. She said it was "way uncool" for Schweitzer to post the private photo to Twitter.
"Digital etiquette: always ask permission before posting a friend's photo publicly. It's not about privacy settings, it's about human decency," Zuckerberg wrote afterwards on Twitter.
Schweitzer deleted the photo and apologized for reposting what she thought was public content.
Some say Scheweitzer didn't do anything wrong, and Zuckerberg was at fault for not understanding who she was sharing her photo with. Gawker's Mario Aguilar, for example, writes:
But hold the phone, Callie! Don't apologize. Doesn't Randi Zuckerberg understand her privacy settings and how a photo on Facebook might suddenly fly out of her control? She's merely compromising her personal desires for the forward march of Facebook's benevolent reign and the advancement of the new,
newsocial-media contract. No comprende? That's her problem.
Facebook has been criticized for its often changing and vague privacy guidelines, with users complaining that it is too difficult to tell which of their friends can see what pieces of content they post. For example, photo albums can be set to public, so everyone can see them, or restricted to only friends, or further restricted to some friends and not others. The changing controls can make it difficult for users to determine which they've selected.
Facebook is rolling out new privacy settings, and past confusion has been such that
Gizmodo published a guide detailing steps users should take to ensure they know who can see what, and that they aren't sharing anything they don't want to be.
Is Facebook's privacy policy too confusing? Take the poll and comment below.
This poll is now closed, but the debate continues in the comments section.
Read Daniel J. Gallington: Fracking, OPEC, and Violence in the Middle East
Read Laurel Miller: Egypt's Constitutional Referendum Was an Opportunity Lost
Teresa Welsh is a foreign affairs reporter at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail her at twelsh@usnews.com and follow her on Twitter.
Obama's DOJ Sets Back Justice With Asset Forfeiture Program
Does Ted Cruz's 'New York Values' Comment Convey Anti-Semitism?
Sanders Questioning Clinton's Qualifications Is a Sign of Desperation
Bernie Sanders Argues That Hillary Clinton Is Not Qualified to be President
Viable or Not, Bernie Sanders Is in the Primary Fight for the Long Haul
Does Ted Cruz's Wisconsin Win Finally Trump The Donald?
Iceland's Prime Minister Resigns Due to Panama Papers Leak
Donald Trump Would Ban Remittances to Make Mexico Pay for Border Wall
Bernie Sanders Might Get Burned by Scott Walker's Wisconsin Voter ID Law
Donald Trump Doesn't Fire Campaign Manager Charged With Battery
Donald Trump Is a Danger to America's Reputation and Global Stability
Supreme Court 4-4 Rulings Absent Garland Leave a Legal Muddle
Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal's 'Religious Liberty' Veto a Win for LGBT Rights
North Carolina's New Bill Thwarts Local Efforts to Extend LGBT Protections
Terrorist Attacks by the Islamic State Group Shake Brussels
President Obama's Visit to Havana Signals Change for US-Cuban Relations
Can FBI Force Apple Workers to Waive Their 13th Amendment Rights?
SeaWorld's Decision to Stop Breeding Orcas Is a Step in the Right Direction
Trump Wins More GOP Primaries But a Brokered Convention Remains Possible
