DEA created a fake Facebook profile in this womans name using seized pics  then impersonated her - The Washington Post
It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them.
stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and well e-mail you free updates as theyre published.
Youll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
DEA created a fake Facebook profile in this womans name using seized pics  then impersonated her
stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and well e-mail you free updates as theyre published.
Youll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
At first glance,the Facebook profileisthe perfect deception. Purportedly belonging to brown-haired woman named Sondra Prince, it shows herdrivinga car, splayed across a white BMW, hugging two young children. If someone were to stumble across the profile, which still exists,there would be little way for them to know the truth: The profile is a fake. It was created surreptitiously by a Drug Enforcement Administrationagent, who seized Princes phone in July 2010 after arresting her, mined it for photographs, then used those pictures to forge a fraudulent profile which allowed authorities to impersonate Prince in an investigation into an alleged New York drug ring. Until, of course, Prince found out  and sued. The result isan ongoing New York federal civil suit thatPrince, who also goes by Sandra Arquiett, has filed against the United States and DEA Agent Timothy Sinnigen. The case, whichBuzzfeeds Chris Hamby first reported, has been sent for mediation by the judge in the case. It hints at themurky boundaries ofsocial media privacy and raises questions as to how far law enforcement can go when using new technology to investigate cases. Cops can  and often do  call upa defendantsTwitter and Facebook accountsto gatheradditional evidence against them. But can they furtivelyand independentlyimpersonate someone? Given the extent to whichcops seize picture-laden phones and computers, some experts fear a dangerous expansion of law enforcements capacity for subterfuge if its allowed to exploit seizedmaterials. I may allow someone to come into my home and search, Anita L. Allen, a University of Pennsylvania law professor, told Hamby. But that doesnt mean they can take the photos from my coffee table and post them online. She added: It reeks of misrepresentation, fraud and invasion of privacy.
One matter thats agreed upon by all parties: Sinnigen, who is claiming qualified immunity from the suit, created the profileand posed as her in contactswith at leastone fugitive connected to a DEA investigation. Sinnigen posted photographs from [Princes]phone, to which he had been granted access, to the undercover Facebook page, an August court filing by the government states.  Defendants admit [Prince] did not give express permission for the use of the photographs contained on her phone on an undercover Facebook page, but state [that Prince] implicitly consented by granting access to the information stored in her phone. Translation: All the pics were fair game. Even ones showing Prince scantily dressed, which Sinnegan used in the fake profile. Defendants admit that in one photograph of [Prince] that was used on the undercover Facebook page, [she] was wearing either a two-piece bathing suit or a bra and underwear, the filing states. The legal wrangle, which a districtjudgeshipped to mediation,has roots in an alleged drugring in which Prince wasinvolved. Based upon my investigation, I believe that Sondra Sosa Arquiett Prince is the [ring leaders] girlfriend and is known to the leadership of the organization as the secretary,' one DEA agent wroteof Prince, whoultimately pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute. The officer alleged Prince was present on multiple occasions while crack cocaine was manufactured in her apartment. During the summer of 2009, Prince helped process 2-3 ounces of crack cocaine and Prince personally handled [one associates] baggies of finished crack cocaine that were ready for sale. In July 2010, Prince was arrested  which was when police seized her phone. On it, they found photos. And, soon after, the profile appeared, speckled with personal touches. Princesalleged boyfriend, Jermaine Branford, went by the nickname Hovie, according to court records. So, naturally, after the Sinnegan made a fake profile of Prince, the first message that appeared on her profile said: I miss Hovie. Later, he posted several photographs of Prince, one of which showed her with her two young children, and another that depicted her in short shorts laying across a car. At least I still have this car! another status update exclaimed. At some point, the fake Sondra Princegathered at least 11 friends and still has some of them. Then Sinnigen began acceptingand dispatching friend requests. Sinnigen maintained the Facebook account for a period of at least three months without [Princes] knowledge, during which time the revealing and/or suggestive photographs of [Prince] remained displayed and available on Facebook, Princes complaint states. She is seeking $250,000 in damages. Law enforcementreportswidespread covert use of Facebook during investigations, according to LexisNexis. This isnt their first fake profile. We do have some covert accounts for targeted enforcements, Cincinnati cop Daniel Gerald told CNN in 2012. But while such a practice may not necessarily violate U.S.law, it runs afoul of Facebook community standards: Claiming to be another person, creating a false pretense for an organization, or creating multiple accounts undermines community and violates Facebooks terms. It just undermines the integrity of our whole service if we allow people to use false accounts, Facebooks chief security officer told CNN.
morning-mix Dallas shooting updates News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11. post_newsletter353 follow-dallas false after3th false
morning-mix Orlando Shooting Updates News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. post_newsletter348 follow-orlando false endOfArticle false
Terrence McCoy covers poverty, inequality and social justice. He also writes about solutions to social problems.
SuperFan Badge SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams. More about badges | Request a badge
Culture Connoisseur Badge Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment. More about badges | Request a badge
Fact Checker Badge Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker. More about badges | Request a badge
Washingtologist Badge Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area. More about badges | Request a badge
Post Writer Badge This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum Badge Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge
Weather Watcher Badge Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts. More about badges | Request a badge
World Watcher Badge World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge
Post Contributor Badge This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors arent staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story. More about badges | Request a badge
Post Recommended Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
You must be logged in to report a comment. Sign in here
You must be logged in to recommend a comment. Sign in here
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.All comments are posted in the All Comments tab. More about badgesGet a badge
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users, previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
 Thank you for signing up You'll receive e-mail when new stories are published in this series.
Like something out of a horror movie: Flesh-eating bacteria infection kills man in four days
Frantic, distressed, violated: Taylor Swift describes alleged groping in deposition
Manhunt continues for suspect in deadly Oklahoma shooting rampage that left two cops injured
Doctors thought he just had jock itch. Then it spread.
washingtonpost.com  1996-2016 The Washington Post  Help and Contact Us Terms of Service Privacy Policy Print Products Terms of Sale Digital Products Terms of Sale Submissions and Discussion Policy RSS Terms of Service Ad Choices
