Barclays to Sell Singapore and Hong Kong Wealth Management Business - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
DealBook|Barclays to Sell Singapore and Hong Kong Wealth Management Business
Barclays to Sell Singapore and Hong Kong Wealth Management Business
Bank of Singapore, a private banking subsidiary of the Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation, is to buy Barclays wealth and investment management business in Singapore and in Hong Kong for $320 million.
LONDON  Barclays said on Thursday that it had agreed to sell its wealth and investment management business in Singapore and in Hong Kong to the Bank of Singapore for $320 million.The sale is part of Barclays effort to reshape itself by selling underperforming businesses and focusing on what it considers its core operations.James E. Staley, who became the British banks chief executive in December, has outlined a plan to turn it around by accelerating its sale of businesses it does not consider core operations and by focusing its strategy around two divisions: its British consumer bank and its corporate and investment bank.As part of that strategy shift, the bank has said that it plans to scale back the size of its business in Asia and focus on its home markets in Britain and the United States.The lender also said in March that it would seek to sell down its 62.3 percent interest in Barclays Africa Group over the next two to three years, after agreements to sell its retail banking operations in Italy, Portugal and Spain.
The sale of our wealth and investment management business in Singapore and Hong Kong marks further progress in our aggressive pursuit of noncore cost and risk weighted asset reductions, Mr. Staley, who is known as Jes, said in a news release.Under the terms of the sale, the Bank of Singapore, a private banking subsidiary of the Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation, would pay a purchase price equivalent to 1.75 percent of the assets under management of the Barclays wealth and investment management business in Singapore and in Hong Kong, or about $320 million. The business had $18.3 billion in assets under management as of the end of 2015.The transaction would reduce Barclays assets as weighted by risk by $1.3 billion.The deal is expected to close by the end of the year.Lazard advised Barclays on the sale.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Business Briefing; Bank of Singapore to Buy Barclays Investment Unit.
Barclays, Posting Loss, Plans to Reduce Business in Africa
Barclays to Scale Back Asia Businesses as Part of Overhaul
Barclays, Posting Loss, Plans to Reduce Business in Africa
Barclays to Scale Back Asia Businesses as Part of Overhaul
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
