Plot Shows Need for More Passenger Data, Officials Say - New York Times
campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/europe/15visa.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/europe, position: Bar1
Plot Shows Need for More Passenger Data, Officials Say
Passengers waited in a tent on Monday to check in for flights at Terminal 4 at Heathrow Airport in London.
WASHINGTON, August 14  As British citizens, the 24 terror suspects arrested in England last week could have boarded planes bound for the United States without undergoing an American government background check or obtaining a visa, part of what federal officials say is a broader security gap that they are now trying to close. Britain is among 27 countries whose citizens are not required to obtain visas before traveling to the United States, meaning that the American authorities do not have an opportunity to screen them in advance. Given this gap, the Department of Homeland Security has tried but failed to win broad approval for rules that would require airlines to share passenger information before flights depart for the United States.Instead, under current rules, passenger data is sent in the first 15 minutes after a flight takes off. That system lets American authorities turn a flight away if a suspected terrorist is determined to be on board, but does not provide any margin of safety in the case of attempts to blow up a plane while in flight, as was alleged to have been the suspects plan in the trans-Atlantic plot. Since Thursday, the day the plot was disclosed, Homeland Security officials have required that passenger data be provided before planes leave Britain for the United States, part of a widening of temporary security measures. But because of airline concerns about flight delays and the difficulties of squaring the access to information with European privacy laws, the departments efforts to permanently require advance information on all passengers of international flights are unresolved, industry and government officials said.Its absolutely essential for aviation security for the U.S. government to have that information and match it against our watch lists in advance of departure, said Jay Ahern, chief of field operations at Customs and Border Protection. Mr. Ahern said the department hoped new rules could take effect late this year or early next year. He said the rules proposed by the department would require information to be turned over an hour before takeoff, though information on anyone checking in late could be provided as little as 15 minutes before the flight. About 87 million visitors to the United States each year arrive by air, according to government statistics. Travelers from most of the world must obtain visas before trying to enter the United States, requiring that they complete an application, provide a photograph and fingerprints, and submit to an interview.But since 1988, the visa waiver program that now applies to citizens of Britain and 26 other countries, most of them in Europe, has left open what some members of Congress and counterterrorism experts now describe as an important vulnerability in American defenses, because so many suspected terrorists in recent years have been European Muslims. In the plot last week, officials said, most of those arrested were British-born citizens of Pakistani descent and most, though not all, had obtained passports for foreign travel. They would have been prevented from traveling only because they were already under surveillance by British authorities. Proposals after the Sept. 11 attacks to require visas for all foreign visitors were abandoned out of concerns that the demand would create an overwhelming bureaucratic workload, interfere with trade and tourism, and prompt Britain and other countries to impose the same requirement on Americans. Proposals pending in Congress would add Poland, South Korea and other countries to the waiver list.Despite more than two years of negotiations, the department has been unable to reach an agreement with airlines to assure the delivery of passenger data before takeoff for all flights to the United States.In an interview on Sunday, Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security, said the vulnerabilities had existed too long. He said he hoped the British plot might persuade the airlines and European authorities to drop objections to his departments proposal.I sure hope this is a great wake-up call, Mr. Chertoff said.Robert S. Leiken, who studies the security issues at the Nixon Center in Washington, said many suspected terrorists arrested in recent years were the children of Muslim immigrants to Europe. Their citizenship in nations with visa waivers makes improving the checks on air travelers critical, he said.Government officials he has consulted on the threat are pretty relaxed now about people coming from the Middle East because of the visa screening process, Mr. Leiken said. What theyre really concerned about is Europe.In the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, federal officials proposed that airlines turn over data for passengers taking international flights to the United States an hour before takeoff, so they could compare the names, dates of birth and
passport numbers to a no fly watch list.Airlines are required to check the list on their own as passengers arrive at the airport. But the data they have is less complete and current than what is available to the federal government.The airlines objected to the one-hour rule, saying it would force delays because passengers are often added to the manifest within minutes of departure, particularly if they are transferring from another flight. The requirement, the airlines complained, could force them to leave planes sitting on the ground for an hour, or to turn away passengers with tight connections. So final action on the rule was delayed.Separately, United States officials asked for access to a much more comprehensive collection of passenger data than the airlines maintain. This database includes credit-card numbers, itineraries, who paid for a ticket and names of parties who are traveling together. Authorities using this data, for example, could demand that someone traveling with a person on the no-fly list also be removed from the flight.But European officials, citing privacy laws, have objected to sharing the data with American authorities, placing restrictions on how it can be used, such as
prohibiting reviews of who else has used the same credit card to buy a ticket. After the European Unions highest court ruled in May that sharing that
data was illegal, it ordered such sharing entirely cut off by October unless European and American authorities reach a new accord on its use.
An article on Tuesday about efforts to improve screening of United States-bound air passengers from Britain and other countries where citizens are not required to obtain visas misspelled the surname of a security expert at the Nixon Center, a Washington policy institute. He is Robert S. Leiken, not Leikin.
Related ArticlesTHREATS AND RESPONSES: PASSENGER SCREENING; Officials Seek Broader Access To Airline Data(August 22, 2006)THREATS AND RESPONSES: AIRLINE SECURITY; U.S. Officials Say Plot Shows Need for More Sharing of Passenger Data(August 15, 2006)THREATS AND RESPONSES: WARNINGS; Threat Alert Level Lowered For U.S. and British Airports(August 15, 2006)Homeland Security Department Gets Better Grades in 2nd Major Test(August 14, 2006)
Related SearchesHomeland Security DepartmentAirlines and AirplanesGreat BritainTerrorism
The Rich Live Longer Everywhere. For the Poor, Geography Matters.
Climate-Related Death of Coral Around World Alarms Scientists
As Campaigns Seek Delegates, Ordinary Voters Feel Sidelined
The Rich Live Longer Everywhere. For the Poor, Geography Matters.
Revelation on Brussels Attackers Fuels Fears of New Assaults
Paul Ryan, a Mirage Candidate, Wages a Parallel Campaign
After His Induction, Steve Miller Rips Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
As Campaigns Seek Delegates, Ordinary Voters Feel Sidelined
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/europe/15visa.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/europe, position: Inv1
