Is Your Android Device Telling the World Where You've Been? | Electronic Frontier Foundation
Is Your Android Device Telling the World Where You've Been?
Do you own an Android device? Is it less than three years old? If so, then when your phones screen is off and its not connected to a Wi-Fi network, there's a high risk that it is broadcasting your location history to anyone within Wi-Fi range that wants to listen.
This location history comes in the form of the names of wireless networks your phone has previously connected to. These frequently identify places you've been, including homes (Toms Wi-Fi), workplaces (Company XYZ office net), churches and political offices (County Party HQ), small businesses (Toulouse Lautrec's house of ill-repute), and travel destinations (Tehran Airport wifi). This data is arguably more dangerous than that leaked in previous location data scandalsbecause it clearly denotes in human language places that you've spent enough time to use the Wi-Fi.1 Normally eavesdroppers would need to spend some effort extracting this sort of information from the latititude/longitude history typically discussed in location privacy analysis. But even when networks seem less identifiable, there are ways to look them up.
We briefly mentioned this problem during our recent post about Apple deciding to randomize MAC addresses in iOS 8. As we pointed out there, Wi-Fi devices that are not actively connected to a network can send out messages that contain the names of networks theyve joined in the past in an effort to speed up the connection process.2 But after writing that post we became curious just how many phones actually exhibited that behavior, and if so, how much information they leaked. To our dismay we discovered that many of the modern Android phones we tested leaked the names of the networks stored in their settings (up to a limit of fifteen). And when we looked at these network lists, we realized that they were in fact dangerously precise location histories.
Aside from Android, some other platforms also suffer from this problem and will need to be fixed, although for various reasons, Android devices appear to pose the greatest privacy risk at the moment.3
In Android we traced this behavior to a feature introduced in Honeycomb (Android 3.1) called Preferred Network Offload (PNO).4 PNO is supposed to allow phones and tablets to establish and maintain Wi-Fi connections even when theyre in low-power mode (i.e. when the screen is turned off). The goal is to extend battery life and reduce mobile data usage, since Wi-Fi uses less power than cellular data. But for some reason, even though none of the Android phones we tested broadcast the names of networks they knew about when their screens were on, manyof the phones running Honeycomb or later (and even one running Gingerbread) broadcast the names of networks they knew about when their screens were turned off.5
When we brought this issue to Googles attention, they responded that:
"We take the security of our users' location data very seriously and we're always happy to be made aware of potential issues ahead of time. Since changes to this behavior would potentially affect user connectivity to hidden access points, we are still investigating what changes are appropriate for a future release."
Additionally, yesterday a Google employee submitted a patch to wpa_supplicant which fixes this issue. While we are glad this problem is being addressed so quickly, it will still be some time before that fix gets integrated into the downstream Android code. And even then, Android fragmentation and the broken update process for non-Google Android devices could delay or even prevent many users from receiving the fix. (We hope Google can make progress on this problem, too.)
With that said, a workaround is available (for most devices) for users who want to protect their privacy right now: go into your phones Advanced Wi-Fi settings and set the Keep Wi-Fi on during sleep option to Never. Unfortunately this will cause a moderate increase in data usage and power consumptionsomething users shouldnt have to do in order to keep their phone from telling everyone everywhere theyve been.
Unfortunately, on at least one device we testeda Motorola Droid 4 running Android 4.1.2even this wasnt sufficient. On the Droid 4, and perhaps on other phones, the only practical way to prevent the phone from leaking location is to manually forget the networks you don't want broadcast, or disable Wi-Fi entirely whenever you aren't actively connecting to a known Wi-Fi network.6 You can also find apps that will do this automatically for you.
Location history is extremely sensitive information. We urge Google to ship their fix as soon as possible, and other Android distributors to offer prompt updates containing it.
1. It can also be used to infer social links between device owners, especially when it comes to secure networks with unique names.
2. This capability is also necessary in order to connect to hidden networks, because those networks dont broadcast their existence like normal Wi-Fi networks. Instead, the phone or other device has to send out a message essentially asking Are you there? and if the hidden network is nearby, it will respond.
3. In our testing no iOS 6 or 7 devices were affected, though we observed the same problem on one of several tested iOS 5 devices (an iPad), and earlier versions of iOS might or might not be affected. Many laptops are affected, including all OS X laptops and many Windows 7 laptops. Desktop OSes will need to be fixed, but because our laptops are not usually awake and scanning for networks as we walk around, locational history extraction from them requires considerably more luck or targeting.
4. The offending code is actually in an open source project called wpa_supplicant, which many Linux distributions, including Android, use to manage Wi-Fi. We want to give credit to Android developer Chainfireas well as several others on the XDA forums whose posts onthis behaviorwere very informative. A couple of other researchers have previously critiqued this behavior.
5. The list of phones we tested is available as a CSV file or a Google Doc.
6. Note that this method isnt foolproof, since an attacker might still be able to get your phone to transmit its known network list when it is connected by transmitting a packet that temporarily disconnects you. Then, depending on the timing, your phone may send the list of networks before it reconnects.
An Umbrella in the Hurricane: Apple Limits Mobile Device Location Tracking
Google Removes Vital Privacy Feature From Android, Claiming Its Release Was Accidental
Mobile Privacy and Security Takes Two Steps Forward, One Step Back: 2014 in Review
Google: Keep Android Users' Secure Network Passwords Secure
WhatsApp Rolls Out End-To-End Encryption to its Over One Billion Users
Illinois Law Requiring Sex Offenders To Report All Internet Activity Violates Free Speech Rights
The FCC's Plan To Unlock Your Set-Top Box Is About Competition, Not Copyright
Courts Decision on Recording Police Erodes First Amendment Rights and Transparency While Inviting Violence
Nest Reminds Customers That Ownership Isn't What It Used to Be
Fair Use and Intellectual Property: Defending the Balance
Fixing Copyright? The 2013-2016 Copyright Review Process
Public Health Reporting and Hospital Discharge Data
EFF is leading the fight against the NSA's illegal mass surveillance program. Learn more about what the program is, how it works, and what you can do.
WhatsApp rolls out end-to-end encryption to its over one billion users. Our technical rundown: https://eff.org/r.rng8
ACLU ask Illinois' top court to strike down unconstitutional sex offender law that impedes free speech rights:
Links are not copyright infringement, says EU's top legal adviser. Important development in an ongoing ECJ case: http://fortune.com/2016/04/07...
