244,000 German houses to be blurred out in Google Street View
244,000 German houses to be blurred out in Google Street View
When it comes to privacy, Google Street View has been a delicate service for the Mountain View tech giant to handle around the world. This is particularly true in Germany, where it has been required to offer the option for citizens to have their houses removed.
Googles Street View software automatically blurs out faces and vehicle numberplates to help preserve individuals privacy. In Germany, where the service is yet to launch, houses were added as an optional extra that citizens could apply to have blurred. Initialy they had to send a letter to Google, although more recently an online form wasintroducedto make the process easier.
Some of the biggest names in tech are coming to TNW Conference in Amsterdam this May.
The deadline for users to apply for this extra privacy measure ended six days ago and Google has nowrevealed exactly how many people want to live in a blurry Street View house. In the 20 German cities in which Street View is launching in first, 244,237 opt-outs from a total of 8,458,084 households were received, equalling a 2.89% rate.
So, why do some Germans fear their houses being featured on Googles service? Quoted recently by Deutsche Welle, newspaper publisher Georg Schaeff explained: The problem with Google Street View is that Google  without asking  has gone and photographed German houses and streets and people do not know how the information is used. Deutsche Welle went on to explain that The countrys highest court has affirmed citizens rights to control who has their personal information and how its used.
In short, Germany is one strict place for privacy. Still, with an opt-out rate of under 3% its clear that many Germans either arent too concerned, or simply werent aware of the issue.
Google says that Street View will launch in twenty German cities within weeks.
Martin Bryant is Editor-at-Large at The Next Web. You can find him on
Twitter, subscribe to him on Facebook and visit his personal site. He's based in Manchester, UK and has a thing for quirky American music and Japanese video games.
All of these logos are better than ours, right? Right?!
Facebook might've just made the inbox of 'yourusername' hell
Watch now: The new Star Wars 'Rogue One' trailer has landed
This Raspberry Pi-enabled Game Boy is a retro gamer's dream
Here's a video of a robot asking you to touch its butt  for research
Why emerging markets are dominating mobile browsing
Google is said to be considering Swift as a first class language for Android
A fleet of self-driving trucks just spent a week cruising through Europe
Slack just opened up its Trello board so you can see what it's going to build next
Bing just became the best search engine for developers
Stay tuned with the weekly recap by our Editor-at-Large Martin Bryant.
Teens kill their Uber driver, caught because they used the app to hail their victim
Here's where you can try out the HTC Vive before buying one
Forget about hiring, this tool will help you build a bot on your own
Twitter users rally behind #resigncameron to try to force UK PM to quit
It's OK to link pirated content as long as you don't upload it, EU court advisor says
This startup wants to stop drone crashes before they happen
All of these logos are better than ours, right? Right?!
Bing just became the best search engine for developers
You can market your ass off, but if your product sucks, you're dead.
Sit back and let the hottest tech news come to you by the magic of electronic mail.
Prefer to get the news as it happens? Follow us on social media.
