Yes, There's a Wait, but for Most It Is Definitely Worth It - NYTimes.com
campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/sports, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/sports, position: Bar1
BaseballN.F.L.College FootballN.B.A.College BasketballHockeySoccerGolfTennisInternational Sports
OLYMPICS: SECURITY; Yes, There's a Wait, but for Most It Is Definitely Worth It
F-16 fighter jets and helicopters patrolled the night sky. Salt Lake City International Airport was closed for the duration of the opening ceremony for the Olympic Winter Games tonight, a strict no-flight zone enforced before, during and after the festivities.
Nearly 300 yellow-and-black-jacketed local law enforcement officers from around the nation have been brought in to bolster the Secret Service, the F.B.I. and every domestic and international security agency imaginable. One of those officers, Mark Boger, a Fairfax, Va., sheriff, drove 2,220 miles with a carload of other volunteers from his town with one mission: to guard the opening ceremony.
''It's overkill, but I can't imagine a safer place in the world tonight,'' Boger said. ''Tight as a lid.''
With President Bush on hand -- not to mention the athletes, the performers, the dignitaries and the more than 57,000 fans with tickets to the show -- Rice-Eccles Stadium was either the place to be tonight or the place you wanted to make sure you got to early.
David Luna traveled from Orem, Utah, with his family of seven. What is routinely a 35-minute trip took more than two hours, if you figure in the time it took for his daughter to get checked with a magnetometer.
''We were expecting it, so it wasn't that much of an inconvenience,'' Luna said. ''The lines were long and it was cold. But, hey, you're at the Olympic Games. I'm not complaining. This is an amazing night. The worst part was getting here, really.''
The three- and four-hour wait that was supposed to put a damper on enthusiasm never materialized. There were complaints outside the stadium, but most came from about 500 members of the news media who were held in a concrete tunnel 50 yards from the stadium entrance so that President Bush could make a trouble-free entrance.
Even coming from downtown was fairly quick, given the rumors of expected marathon security checks.
One trip began on a bus at 3:52 p.m., headed toward the stadium for a show beginning at 7 p.m.
Up University Avenue it rumbled as the sun started to recede behind the Wasatch Range. Six security guards met people as they got off the bus. A line of maybe 300 people awaited. The first ticket check took more than 20 minutes to pass. But another more daunting line came on the other side of a chain-link fence, nearly 200 yards from the stadium.
Magnetic wands combed the body just as they do at the airport when a belt buckle sets off the buzzer. Every electronic device was thoroughly checked, along with every computer case or backpack. Those visitors did not reach the steps of the stadium until 6 p.m.
Two hours eight minutes after the trip had started, a white palace of ice and snow -- and the opening to the games of the 19th Winter Olympics -- awaited.
Many people who attended the ceremony planned ahead and left early. Elizabeth Seeberg, an administrator with the Norway Olympic Committee, left Park City, Utah, early in the afternoon.
''It took maybe 20 minutes to get downtown and no time at all once we arrived at the stadium,'' Seeberg said. ''Yes, they checked me very carefully and I had to pass through much security. But this was understandable.''
When President Bush was introduced, he was given a standing ovation. By the time ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' blared through the stadium, the clouds had cleared and all that could be seen were the white-capped mountains above the crowd.
The only obstacle obscuring the view was a helicopter whirring above, shining a strobe light on anything that moved.
Luna, who brought his family, said he had no safety concerns, even in light of world events the past six months. The same sentiment was expressed throughout the stadium, where the masses began rehearsing for their part in the ceremony.
''Do I feel safe?'' Luna asked. ''I feel safer here than I've ever felt anywhere. Two hours was nothing for this.''
Meanwhile, Boger, the Fairfax sheriff, said he planned to stay for the Games before returning home the way he came -- by car. ''I didn't want to fly,'' he said.
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/sports, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/sports, position: Inv1
