Logging Into Windows 10 With a Favorite Photo - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Personal Tech|Logging Into Windows 10 With a Favorite Photo
Windows 10 guides you through setting up a picture password to use for logging into the computer.
Q. What advantage does using a picture password instead of a typed password have for logging into Windows 10?A. Picture passwords, not to be confused with the Windows Hello face-recognition option, let you log into the computer by tapping the screen or drawing a shape over an onscreen image. If you can remember the sequence of three quick gestures that you swipe over the photo with your mouse or finger, you do not have to recall a typed password to get into the computer. A picture password may also be easier for people who have difficulty typing. And unless someone is standing over your shoulder while you log in, a gesture-based password can be harder to break than a typed one that could be more easily guessed  or hacked with password-cracking software.To set up a picture password in Windows 10, click the Start button and select Settings from the menu. Choose Accounts, and on the left pane of the window, select Sign-in Options. On the Sign-in Options screen, you can change your existing account password, choose to log in with a typed set of PIN digits, or log into your computer with a Picture Password.Click the Add button under Picture Password, type in your current password and click O.K. Next, follow the steps on the setup screen, including choosing a personal photo from your computers picture library, then drawing (and confirming) the three different shapes or gestures you want to use on the photo. Once you have completed the picture-password setup, you just have to perform your chosen gestures correctly on the photo to sign into the computer.If you forget your gestures, click the Sign-In Options link on the Windows login screen and choose the icon for a typed password instead; your original Windows password still works here. If you do not care for the picture-password method, return to the Account settings box to Sign-in Options and click the Remove button under Picture Password.
Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually.
Stories to help you understand the world  and make the most of it.
$1,225,000 Homes in Los Angeles, Vermont and Alabama
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
