The Latest: Ex-Coal Chief Appeals in Mine Safety Case - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|The Latest: Ex-Coal Chief Appeals in Mine Safety Case
The Latest: Ex-Coal Chief Appeals in Mine Safety Case
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSAPRIL 7, 2016, 4:22 P.M. E.D.T.
The Latest on former Massey Energy CEO Don Blankenship's sentencing (all times local):4:10 p.m.Former coal company chief Don Blankenship is appealing a case that resulted in a one-year prison sentence.In U.S. District Court in Beckley on Thursday, the ex-Massey Energy CEO filed his notice of appeal to the U.S. 4th Circuit Court of Appeals.On Wednesday, Blankenship was sentenced to the maximum penalties of a year in prison and a $250,000 fine for conspiring to willfully violate mine safety standards at Upper Big Branch Mine.The southern West Virginia coal mine exploded in 2010, killing 29 men.A jury convicted him of the misdemeanor on Dec. 3.
Judge Irene Berger declined to let Blankenship stay free on a $1 million bond while he appeals the case.___12:20 p.m.The former prosecutor against ex-coal company chief Don Blankenship expects him to serve his full, one-year sentence in a minimum-security federal prison.Former U.S. Attorney Booth Goodwin made the comments Thursday.Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Ruby confirmed that time off for good behavior applies only to terms more than a year.On Wednesday, Blankenship was sentenced to the maximum penalties of a year in prison and a $250,000 fine for conspiring to willfully violate mine safety standards at Upper Big Branch Mine.The southern West Virginia coal mine exploded in 2010, killing 29 men.A jury convicted the former Massey Energy CEO of the misdemeanor on Dec. 3.Judge Irene Berger declined to let Blankenship stay free on a $1 million bond while he appeals the case.Goodwin left office after Blankenship's conviction to run for governor. Continue reading the main story
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
