Privacy worries mean citizens prefer a government-owned identity provider
https://www.theguardian.com/public-leaders-network/2013/jul/22/government-identity-platform-private-sector
In June, the Government Digital Service announced that HM Revenue  Customs is going to be the first department to use the governments new, online identity scheme, which is intended to provide a secure way for people to verify their identity when accessing public services online. The online identity assurance scheme will involve eight private sector organisations that will hold a digital passport for enrolled UK citizens, and will enable individuals to access government online services, such as tax inquiries. But with security concerns around data breaches and ID theft continuing to feature highly in the news, the question is whether the planned government rollout of the scheme is supported by citizens. The annual Unisys Security Index reveals that 91% of UK residents surveyed support the governments plans for the scheme. However, only a worryingly low number (9%) would put their trust in private companies to manage their identity credentials – exactly the type of organisation the government has entrusted with the online identity scheme. In addition, only 15% of respondents said they would trust credit card companies to manage a digital identity scheme, while an abysmal 4% of the respondents trust social media providers. However, the overwhelming majority of UK citizens (61%) confirmed they would trust the government to look after their digital identity data. It is clear that consumer opinions counter the government plans and it is not altogether surprising when you consider a UK citizens point of view: I pay the government to identify and verify me when I am born (birth certificate), when I marry (marriage certificate), when I die (death certificate) and when I travel (passport and driving licence). Why should I then have to pay an outside private organisation to verify who I am when I transact with the government online, when Ive already paid the government? Let the government – possibly the passport service that is also the national records office – be my identity provider of choice. The government should look more closely at the identity assurance model and take note of consumer preferences for a government-owned identity provider. This is timely since the commercial model for identity provision by the private sector is, to say the least, not particularly clear. The recent announcement that universal credit will no longer be the first application of the project, plus the results from the Unisys Security Index survey, provide a moment for the government to review its identity management strategy. Neil Fisher is vice president of global security solutions for Unisys. • Want your say? Email us at public.leaders@guardian.co.uk  To get our articles on policy and leadership direct to your inbox, sign up to the Guardian Public Leaders Network now.  Looking for your next role? See our Guardian jobs site for senior executive jobs in government and politics.  • For the latest on public services leadership, follow us: @publicleaders
