WASHINGTON (Reuters) — Connecticut’s attorney general said Monday that he would lead a multistate investigation into whether Google broke laws when it siphoned personal data off of wireless networks around the world. The company has said the data collection was inadvertent.

Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said more than 30 states had participated in a recent conference call on the issue. He said consumers had a right to know what information was collected, and whether states need to alter procedures to guard against such leaks in the future.

Shares in Google slid 1.4 percent, to $492.81 in a relatively flat market.

In May, Google said its cars photographing streets around the world had for years accidentally collected personal data — which a security expert said at the time could have included e-mail messages and passwords — sent by consumers over wireless networks.

“My office will lead a multistate investigation — expected to involve a significant number of states — into Google’s deeply disturbing invasion of personal privacy,” Mr. Blumenthal said in a statement.

“Consumers have a right and a need to know what personal information — which could include e-mails, Web browsing and passwords — Google may have collected, how and why.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Blumenthal said Google has cooperated but “its response so far raises as many questions as it answers.”

“Our investigation will consider whether laws may have been broken and whether changes to state and federal statutes may be necessary,” he said.

Google already faces an informal investigation over the matter by the Federal Trade Commission, a variety of inquiries overseas, and class-action lawsuits.

Google has said the data was accidentally collected by its “Street View” cars, well known for crisscrossing the globe and taking panoramic pictures of city streets, which the company displays in its online maps product.

“It was a mistake for us to include code in our software that collected payload data, but we believe we did nothing illegal. We’re working with the relevant authorities to answer their questions and concerns,” a Google spokeswoman, Christine Chen, said in an e-mail message.

The company says it uses the location of Wi-Fi networks to enhance location-based services on smartphones.

It first revealed that Street View cars were collecting wireless data in April, but said that no personal data was involved. After an audit requested by Germany, Google acknowledged in May that it had been mistakenly collecting samples of “payload data.”

Mr. Blumenthal also released a letter sent to Google in mid-June asking for more details of the data collection. He had written to Google previously and the company had responded.

In the second letter, Mr. Blumenthal asked the company when it realized that its Street View cars had collected the extra data, who audited or analyzed the Street View data collection program, and whether information was ever extracted from the payload data.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He also asked what precautions Google takes to ensure that its engineers do not insert undesirable code into Google products, and which engineer or engineers inserted the payload data code into the Street View cars’ collection devices.