Over the last three years, several measures were introduced in Congress that would have helped reduce or eliminate the abuses of communications surveillance revealed this week. Every one of them was voted down.

Most members of Congress, it turns out, had received the usual bland assurances from counterterrorism officials that the authority granted to the government under the Patriot Act and related laws were absolutely necessary to prevent an attack on the United States, and that domestic spying activities must remain top secret. Proposals to bring greater transparency to these activities, or to limit their scope, were vigorously opposed by the Obama administration. (The Justice Department argued in a court filing in April that there must be no public disclosure of the extent of domestic data collection.)

Except for a few leaders and members of the intelligence committees, most lawmakers did not know the government was collecting records on almost every phone call made in the United States or was able to collect anyone’s e-mail messages and Internet chats. And most important, since the public did not know about the extent of the surveillance, it was in no position to bring popular pressure against elected representatives.

But now we know. It may be that only a small portion of domestic intelligence gathering has come to light, but this week’s revelations provided a chilling glimpse of what President Obama’s National Security Agency has been up to. We now know what Senator Mark Udall of Colorado was talking about when he warned in 2011 that the “intelligence community can target individuals who have no connection to terrorist organizations.” He added, “They can collect business records on law-abiding Americans,” though he was prevented by legal constraints as a member of the Select Committee on Intelligence from explaining that meant records on every single call.

Now that this practice has been disclosed, it’s time for Congress to take action. The first step has to be ending the secrecy that makes it impossible for lawmakers or other officials to discuss, even in general terms, what the government is doing.

Last December, Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon introduced a measure that would require the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to make public the summaries of its opinions on domestic spying activities. The measure did not pass, but afterward Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the Intelligence Committee chairwoman, wrote a letter to the court with Mr. Merkley, Mr. Udall and Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, asking it to provide such summaries. The presiding judge, Reggie Walton, wrote back, saying that summaries could result in confusion and reveal too much information. Congress should override this resistance and require the court to be more public about its decisions.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The second step is legislation to limit the collection of call records and the monitoring of Internet traffic to that of people suspected of terrorism, ending the mass warehousing of everyone’s data. Officials have never demonstrated that mining all calls and messages really prevents terrorism, and the cost in lost privacy for all citizens is far too high. A bill proposed last year by Mr. Merkley and Mr. Wyden would ban the secret court from approving the collection of data unless it is clearly linked to terrorism. To preserve the nation’s civil liberties, the bill should be reintroduced and passed right away.