Shannon Stapleton/Reuters

Jeff Bezos, the founder and chief executive of Amazon, was on a roll.

Moments earlier, he had unveiled the Kindle Fire, Amazon’s newest mobile device, a sleek and chic tablet with a full-color touch screen. By all accounts, the presentation had been a hit, setting off a wave of congratulatory Tweets.

Now he was making himself comfortable in a private room for one-on-one interviews. He poured himself a cup of coffee and settled back to chat.

Mr. Bezos deftly answered a handful of questions, none of which seemed to rattle his composure — not those about whether the Kindle Fire could challenge the iPad, nor even queries about recent articles exposing harsh working conditions at an Amazon distribution center. He pointed to Amazon’s previous statements on that issue, and when pressed for his own reaction, he just stared evenly for a few beats. Cool as a cucumber.

But then things got interesting.

The point was raised that although the Kindle Fire is built on Android, like many other tablets, there was no visible signifier that the tablet was at all powered by Google. No Google-branded e-mail, Web search, maps, anything.

Mr. Bezos nodded, saying that to the average consumer, the Fire’s software would be “unrecognizable as Android.”

“We used the open-source code directly and built on top of that,” he said. “So it’s really our own thing.”

Mr. Bezos added that the company would be “happy to partner” with Google to ensure that the Fire software would work smoothly with new Android releases.

But when pressed about whether his company had been in talks with Google during the development of the Fire, he grew uneasy.

“You’d have to ask someone else,” he sputtered. “I don’t know.”

An Amazon spokesman, Andrew Herdener, said on Thursday that the companies had not collaborated. Shari Doherty, a spokeswoman for Google, said the company was happy that Amazon chose Android as the software for its tablet but declined to comment further about the Fire.

Amazon was not required to work with Google to use its software, which Google gives away. But in this case Amazon had a reason to be secretive about its tablet plans — and Mr. Bezos may have a reason to be jittery when the subject of his company’s relationship with Google comes up.

Amazon is jumping into the browser wars, putting it in competition with Mozilla, Microsoft and, of course, Google, which has been pouring resources into Chrome. But it is going a step further with its Silk browser by acting as a middleman between the Fire and the Web sites a user wants to visit, saying it will use its powerful cloud computing resources to speed up delivery of Web pages.

Chris Espinosa, the eighth hire at Apple and a senior engineer at the company, tossed out a theory this week that Amazon wants to take a bite out of Google, using a tablet built on Google’s own software.

“Fire isn’t a noun, it’s a verb, and it’s what Amazon has done in the targeted direction of Google,” he wrote in a post on his personal blog. “This is the first shot in the new war for replacing the Internet with a privatized merchant data-aggregation network.”

Mr. Espinosa points out, as other savvy tech writers have in the days since the Fire was unveiled, that there are some serious security and privacy implications to the Silk browser. Because its users’ Web traffic is piped through Amazon’s servers, it may give Amazon unique insight into the Web clicks, buying patterns and media habits of Kindle Fire owners.

“Amazon now has what every storefront lusts for: The knowledge of what other stores your customers are shopping at and what prices they’re being offered there,” Mr. Espinosa continued. “What’s more, Amazon is getting this not by expensive, proactive scraping the Web, like Google has to do, they’re getting it passively by offering a simple caching service.”

Perhaps the data collected could be another way for Amazon to subsidize the cost of its hardware, allowing it to undercut rivals on price. Your average Internet service provider already has access to such data, and the mobile Opera Mini browser uses a similar technique. But Amazon is expected to sell as many as five million Kindle Fires right off the bat. This could make the Fire an interesting kink in Google’s plans to use Android to help it sell mobile advertising and build a dominant presence on mobile devices.