A sordid orgy and why Max Mosley can't be allowed to erase history | Daily Mail Online
A sordid orgy and why Max Mosley can't be allowed to erase history
A sordid orgy and why Max Mosley can't be allowed to erase history
More than any man on earth, the former Formula One racing chief Max Mosley is trying to rewrite the rules that have governed the workings of a free Press for many years, not just in this country but throughout Europe.His latest assault is on the internet giant Google. He has been trying to persuade a French court that the web engine should be prevented from directing users to pictures of a private orgy that he organised five years ago.The photographs, involving Mr Mosley and five consensual prostitutes, were originally published by the now defunct News of the World in March 2008. It alleged that Mr Mosley had been engaged in a sick Nazi orgy.
Mr Mosley has been trying to persuade a French court that Google should be prevented from directing users to pictures of a private orgy that he organised five years ago
Google's response to Mr Mosley is that the application of filters would amount to a form of censorship
To the astonishment of many, three months later Mr Mosley won damages of 60,000 in the High Court from the paper, which was held to have invaded his privacy. Although German was spoken, uniforms worn and blood was shed by Mosley during the proceedings, and despite heads apparently being inspected as though for lice, the learned judge declared there was no evidence that this had been a Nazi orgy.Mr Justice Eady ruled that if it had been a Nazi orgy he might have found in favour of the newspaper, since Mr Mosley was a public figure of sorts whose suitability for his high-profile job would have been seriously called into question by such antics. As there was no such proof, the paper was required to pay damages and costs.Buoyed by this significant (and to my mind irrational) verdict, Mr Mosley set about trying to restrict the activities of the Press. In 2011 he argued in the European Court of Human Rights that prior notification should be compulsory for newspapers, to give their targets time to obtain an injunction preventing publication.
(left to right) Woman D, Woman B and Woman C, above and a fourth, Woman A, all denied there was any Nazi element to the orgy at the trial against the News of The World
In other words, a politician or businessman caught doing something wrong could try to persuade a sympathetic judge to kill off the story. Mercifully, the Court had a fit of good sense, and seven of its judges ruled that the right to freedom of expression would be at risk if pre-notification was compulsory.But Mr Mosley was, and is, a man obsessed. One way or another the Press must be curbed. His lawyers have just argued in front of French judges that Google should apply filters so that people would be unable to access photographs of his orgy.
If Mr Mosley had his way, it would not be long before George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four became one step closer to reality
The unwary might suppose that this is perfectly reasonable. If the News of the World was, according to an English judge, guilty of invading Mr Mosleys privacy when it originally published photographs of his orgy, why should those photographs be available on the net?Googles response is that the application of filters would amount to a form of censorship. Access to news sites carrying the pictures, or to innocuous articles containing the images, might be blocked. In short, the prohibition would extend much further than the photographs.If anything, Google is understating the case. Should Mr Mosley get his way, the consequence could be the rewriting or erasing of chunks of history. Whether or not his privacy was invaded, the photographs exist and no one has challenged their authenticity. They amount to a historical record of a sordid event which indubitably took place. Decent people might wish that it hadnt, but it did.These images continue to exist not only on the net but in libraries and private homes. If they were wiped out on the internet  actually, they physically cant be, but access to them can be denied  they would logically have to be destroyed wherever else they might survive. That sounds like a police state.If Mr Mosley wins this battle, his next step might be to request that any articles which so much as referred to the pictures of his orgy, or the orgy itself, should also be destroyed, possibly including this one.
Mr Mosley, pictured here with F1 models in Barcelona, faced calls for his resignation when the story was published
want to rewrite their pasts would also apply to have access blocked to
discreditable information about them on the internet. In fact, its
European Unions highest court is considering whether Spains privacy
regulator may have overstepped the mark when trying to force Google to
remove unflattering search results for numerous citizens  for example, a
doctor who claimed that a 1991 news article about a dispute with a
patient had damaged his business.Of course, libellous or untrue articles can, and should, be taken off the net. Google says it has removed hundreds of such pages relating to Mr Mosley following requests from him.Equally, the search engine should do much more to block access to extreme pornographic websites. But such a welcome move does not involve the rewriting of history to which Mr Mosleys innovations would lead us.
Steve Coogan, Hugh Grant and Max Mosley give evidence to the Joint Committee on Privacy and Injunctions: Though he has denied giving donations to Hacked Off, the pressure group campaigning for tougher regulation of British newspapers, he is a supporter of the organisation
long before George Orwells Nineteen Eighty-Four became one step closer
to reality. In that book, Winston Smith is employed as a clerk in the
Ministry of Truth, rewriting historical documents to match the
STEPHEN GLOVER: Boris must emulate his hero Churchill's courage and lead the 'Out' campaign - or forget about ever being PM
He's vulgar, vain and obnoxious. But refusing to take Trump seriously would be infantile folly, says STEPHEN GLOVER
It's taken the belly-aching bigots of Oxford to make me agree with Chris Patten, says STEPHEN GLOVER
Forgive me, but I find this hysteria a little over the top: STEPHEN GLOVER says the Second Coming would scarcely attract as much attention as Bowie's death
STEPHEN GLOVER: With every week that passes, I grow more disturbed by Corbyn's indulgence of terrorists
STEPHEN GLOVER: Lockerbie. Spycatcher. Death on the Rock. Why haven't the files been opened up?
STEPHEN GLOVER: Spare us the pious guff, Dave. This is the Christmas message you should have delivered
STEPHEN GLOVER: Meddling and obsessed with secrecy - when Charles is king, his enemies will have his head
STEPHEN GLOVER: Why should we have to fill in FOUR tax returns a year when giant firms don't pay a penny?
I exaggerate? I dont think so. Mr Mosley does not like freedom much.
At a meeting of a Commons select committee in March he shocked
observers. He suggested that access to foreign-based websites could be
blocked if they flouted tough new rules that might be introduced by
British regulators. Thats what they do in dictatorships such as Iran
and China.Its surely no accident that Mr Mosley should have started his assault on freedom in France, a country with ferocious privacy laws in which newspapers are traditionally cowed by politicians and the courts.Until shortly before his death, French newspapers did not dare reveal the truth about the war record, private life and financial misdemeanours of former president Francois Mitterrand.For example, there was scant discussion of the period during the early years of World War II when he supported Petains pro-German Vichy regime, and allegations that he protected Nazi collaborators who helped deport French Jews to death camps were also downplayed. It was only in the months before his death that the Press revealed that Mitterrand had fathered an illegitimate child by a secret mistress.The French court will deliver its verdict on Mr Mosleys latest legal challenge, subject to appeal, on October 21. Meanwhile, he is also challenging Google in the German courts. He is aiming for Europe-wide controls on the web engine  and of course he has lots of money.Though he has denied giving donations to Hacked Off, the pressure group campaigning for tougher regulation of British newspapers, he is a supporter of the organisation and has reportedly financed hacking victims lawyers. Will Hacked Off now condemn him for wishing to censor the internet? Of course not. What Mr Mosley yearns for, Hacked Off also wants.He is a very wealthy man who organised a sordid orgy which the News of the World could have justly described as German-themed. Nevertheless, he won his case. Meanwhile, that newspaper has been closed down for unconnected reasons.But that is not enough for him. His war of vengeance against the Press continues. It as if newspapers must suffer because he has been damaged.He blames everyone except himself. It seems never to occur to Max Mosley that he may have acted unwisely or wrongly. In trying to bury his unwholesome past, this peculiar man would, if he could, cheerfully dismantle all our freedoms.
Shocking footage of masked men in Stockholm attacking...
Shocking moment drunk man's arm is ripped off by a caged...
FBI releases video showing shooting death of LaVoy Finicum
Creepy moment caterpillar-eating spider leaps out from lair
Megyn Kelly opens GOP debate with comment about Trump
NYPD arrests suspect for trying to lure Queens 10-year-old...
Saudi Arabia: Shocking aftermath of explosion in Shia mosque
Shocking moment man plunges to his death climbing into flat
Colorado dad outraged at daughter's beating by a bully in...
Vicious brawl breaks out amongst straphangers on Bronx 2...
Toledo Zoo welcomes adorable little fuzzy baby polar bear
'Hundreds-strong' mob of masked men rampage through...
PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: What a difference a day makes! Make-up...
EXCLUSIVE -The city destroyed by migration: Inside the...
Is this Harry's new girl? Romeo Prince is linked to American...
David Bowie's last will and testament: Star left half his...
Millionaire shipping executive escapes execution 'by paying...
Just how old do you think these migrant 'children' are?...
Swiss government proposes paying everyone 1,700 a month...
You f***ing idiot, dont do it!: Russian has his hand...
Florida teacher is suspended without pay after 'sending nude...
'Do you understand that you are a textbook psychopath?'...
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
EXCLUSIVE: 'Her next moves will be paramount': Axed Hollyoaks star Stephanie Davis 'inundated with work offers' after CBB
Geordie Shore favourite Charlotte Crosby consciously covers up her new nose as she heads out in foxy black catsuit... after admitting surgery
Denise van Outen hints at her wedding guest dress as she chooses florals for drinks with Eddie Boxshall the night before Kimberley Walsh's nuptials
PICTURED: Final preparations get under way for Kimberley Walsh and Justin Scott's star-studded Barbados wedding
'Here's to one of the most special days we will ever share': Bridesmaid Nicola Roberts pays touching tribute to 'older sister' bride Kimberley Walsh
Awkward! Will.I.Am gives false hope to The Voice contestant after accidentally pushing his 'chair choice' button
'I could play all night': Topless Perrie Edwards appears to poke fun at Zayn Malik's Pillowtalk debut with cryptic snap... as he admits solo material IS about her
Bottoms up! Jess Impiazzi flashes derrire on wild night out with Made In Chelsea cast... as they rack up 24,000 bar bill
Sealed with a kiss! Game Of Thrones stars Kit Harington and Rose Leslie confirm romance rumours as they lock lips in LA
Marnie Simpson is carried to a car by Gaz Beadle after another wild night on the town as the Geordie Shore stars dress for sin
Vicky Pattison sets pulses racing as she flaunts her ample curves in skintight pencil dress during boozy night out
PHWORR-mula One! Lewis Hamilton shows off the results of his gruelling gym sessions in shirtless Instagram selfie
David Beckham enjoys laid-back weekend with family dog Olive... as eldest son Brooklyn gets to work on first professional-photography gig
Time to earn his keep! Brooklyn Beckham taps into famous parents' professionalism as he shoots Burberry campaign
Alex Gerrard hides her gym-honed body in an unusual shaggy coat as she enjoys a pampering session in Liverpool
Does Scotty T have a secret girlfriend? CBB favourite 'seeing former Miss Newcastle contestant' despite tashing on with Megan McKenna
'One take was enough!': Rupert Grint talks kissing childhood friend and co-star Emma Watson while at Celebration of Harry Potter Event
The boys are back in town! Ben Stiller cuts a dapper figure for reunion with Zoolander co-stars Justin Theroux, Will Ferrell and Owen Wilson
Keeping up the controversy! Rob Kardashian 'wants reality show' with Blac Chyna... despite arrest for public intoxication and drug possession
Blac Chyna thanks Rob Kardashian for his support after arrest for being drunk on a plane and DRUG possession
A cheeky night out! Jamie Foxx accidentally bares his buttocks as he wraps up a late night bite at a Hollywood hotspot
EXCLUSIVE TRAILER: Amber Rose puts the boys in their place when it comes to treating women right and beer pong in new film What Happened Last Night
Daisy Lowe JUST conceals her modesty in see through dress as she puts an amorous display with new boyfriend Thomas Cohen for birthday bash
Rocco Ritchie looks dizzy with joy as he enjoys bike ride with father Guy and step-mother Jacqui
Gigi Hadid shows off her impeccable abs in a bold mustard crop top as she leaves beau Zayn Malik behind for dinner in LA
TV presenter Hofit Golan exhibits her pert bust and defined abs in THREE bikinis as she continues to enjoy Maldives escape
Chic in caramel! Kate Bosworth shows off her fashion credentials yet again is style savvy ensemble while out in NY
'We don't work at the same time...it splits everyone up': Ryan Reynolds reveals how he and wife Blake Lively balance work with family
'God's dream .... Never speak on kids again': Kanye West makes indirect apology for dragging Amber Rose and Wiz Khalifa's son into Twitter war
Julianna Margulies and husband Keith Lieberthal sport matching shades and leather jackets during shopping date
Khlo Kardashian flashes her bra on a girls' out night with sister Kourtney... as they run into with her ex French Montana at LA hotspot
Letting off steam! Smiling Amber Rose displays her derriere and perfect curves in a pink bodysuit as she hits the gym after Kanye West spat
Amber Rose accentuates her hourglass curves in a figure-hugging patterned dress as she parties her troubles away in LA
Lily James joins forces with Bella Heathcote as they flash their thighs to reveal racier side of classic novel Pride and Prejudice in ZOMBIE film
Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman's son Connor Cruise hits the DJ booth as he celebrates milestone 21st birthday
Is Wilfried Zaha the vainest man in football? Crystal Palace star reveals he goes to his barber for a new haircut EVERY DAY
Bride-to-be Liberty Ross celebrates bachelorette party with A-list pals Cindy Crawford and Jeremy Scott as she prepares to wed fianc Jimmy Iovine
She's feline fine! Make-up free Hilary Duff dons tiger motif T-shirt showing off lean legs after gym session in LA
A motherly glow! Pregnant Liv Tyler enjoys quality time with son Milo as the two keep warm in spite of freezing New York temperatures
CBB favourite Megan McKenna ups the glamour for wild night on the town... as she has dig at Stephanie Davis' ex Sam Reece
Louis Tomlinson's former flame Briana Jungwirth cuts a stylish figure in wet look leggings with her mum and baby son Freddie
Whole Lotta History! Cheryl Fernandez-Versini's throwback photo of 'true friend' Kimberley Walsh'
Ryan Reynolds goes geek-chic in spectacles and a charcoal cardigan as he arrives in NYC from London
'I'd be absolutely gutted': CBB evictee Jeremy McConnell admits guilt over fling with Sam Reece's beau Stephanie Davis
'I don't want to be without you': Stephanie Davis breaks down as Jeremy McConnell becomes sixth to be evicted
'I have done absolutely nothing to deserve it!' Lauren Graham delights in Gilmore Girls reboot award as she reveals show has yet to begin production
Rob Kardashian's new girlfriend Blac Chyna 'arrested at Austin airport for being drunk and disorderly during a flight'
'I don't let him eat any red meat': Blac Chyna reveals she has Rob Kardashian on a diet as she confirms relationship
SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: MasterChef star swaps wife for Harry's chum
Food critic William Sitwell has become the talk of the culinary world
Better than Barbie? Zilda Williams covers up her enhanced DD chest but flaunts her toned pins in hotpants as the reality TV star compares herself to plastic doll
'It's not an easy process!' Karolina Kurkova shares sweet photo of herself feeding baby Noah in effort to inspire other mothers
Bit nippy outside? Rita Ora wraps up in fur coat and knitted maxi dress at Daisy Lowe's birthday bash... after stripping completely naked for racy shoot
EXCLUSIVE: Heather Mills, 48, parties with a wrist brace in Austria... as it's revealed she was thrown from a snowmobile in ski slope accident
David Bowie leaves half his $100million fortune and Manhattan home to widow Iman: Star's will gives other half to his children
Joanne Froggatt is classic in black as she and husband James Cannon enjoy date night at SAG Awards party
Elizabeth Hurley sports a playful oversized bobble hat as she bundles up with a getaway bag in tow
Jaime King highlights her svelte figure in chic trench coat and tapered trousers as she runs errands in NYC
Kym Marsh makes cringe-worthy blunder on live TV as she struggles to answer question about fitness gadget before GMB's Ben Shephard steps in
EXCLUSIVE: Stephanie Davis and Jeremy McConnell did NOT have sex on Celebrity Big Brother
Nicola Roberts bares her perfect porcelain skin and toned abs on Barbados beach ahead of Kimberley Walsh's wedding
Maisie Williams oozes high glamour in thigh-skimming Bardot minidress as she steps out for SAG Awards
Her character Arya Stark is often mistaken for a tomboy...
'He was having a threesome': Khlo Kardashian recalls walking in on a former boyfriend 'with two girls he met at the mall'
Just like Yeezus! Kim Kardashian shares sweet snap of 'twins' North and Kanye's matching snarl
Rita Ora dares to bare in nude photographs as more raunchy snaps emerge from steamiest ever photoshoot
Estranged couple Megan Fox and Bryan Austin Green sell their cute LA home for a cool $2.6 million
'This is crazy, I can't believe it': Zayn Malik's debut solo track Pillowtalk reaches no.1 in 60 countries
'I won't go back to 1D for 25 years': Zayn Malik says One Direction fans will have to wait a quarter of a century for reunion as he admits he won't return until 'we're all men'
Dark comedy? Amy Schumer dresses to remember gun violence victims as Justin Long 'attends a funeral' on their NYC set
Ready for action! Elle Fanning dons shirt covered with soldiers as she showing off bare legs in pleated skirt walking in LA
Christina Ricci and Sarah Hyland dazzle in sequined numbers as they lead glam parade at Entertainment Weekly SAG Awards Party
Kylie Jenner steps out for dinner in Calabasas and keeps mum on brother Rob's new girlfriend Blac Chyna after 'drunk and disorderly arrest'
'born to ride': Joey and Rory Feek share uplifting snap of daughter Indiana playing on toy horse
The country star couple shared an uplifting snap of their little girl Indiana
Menopause? It's the power surge, says Kay Burley: Sky presenter wants to rename women's hormone change
Motherhood suits you! Ex-Neighbours star Stephanie McIntosh glows on the red carpet in LA wearing cleavage-baring dress on rare night out away from her young daughter
Back in black! Rachel Griffiths cuts an elegant figure as she takes her son to theAACTA International Awards
Naomi Campbell cuts a fragile figure with cane and wheelchair at JFK airport as she recovers from 'light foot injury'
Selena Gomez cosies up to co-star Paul Rudd at the Sundance premiere of The Fundamentals of Caring
The 23-year-old pop diva exclaimed: 'Finally got to see our movie!'
Former Home And Away star Samara Weaving shows more than she bargained for as she flashes bra outline through her fitted frock at AACTA International Awards
Phil Collins living with his third wife Orianne Cevey again six years after paying her 25m in divorce... even though she married someone else in the meantime
'It's so heavy I can't lift my arm up!' Mariah Carey gushes about her 35 carat diamond ring and her fianc James Packer
Kate Winslet shows her specs appeal as she leads stars arriving in Los Angeles just ahead of the SAG Awards
Showed her hipster style in a pair of large, thick-rimmed glasses
Pregnant Nicky Hilton dons skinny jeans inWest Hollywood
The mourning 32-year-old might be expecting, but she can still fit into tight denim
Furry pregnant! Anne Hathaway's baby bump is on full display while she heads out carrying big brown shaggy coat
The 33-year-old stepped out revealing her blossoming baby bump
Pounding the pavement! Claire Danes shows off her toned figure in leggings while on a jog in Santa Monica
Donned a purple and grey top with black leggings and sneakers
Melanie Griffith and daughter Stella are mother-daughter fashionistas as they dress casual cool during shopping trip in LA
Ready in a flash! Jennifer Garner rushes out of the house with wet hair to pick up daughters Violet and Seraphina from school
Free as a bird! Model Martha Hunt gets playful in Mexican-inspired poncho during a fashion photo shoot in Miami
The 26-year-old model wore a white Mexican-inspired poncho
Back to his roots: David Beckham is suited and booted in grey ensemble as he poses up a storm for football pitch photoshoot
Is this Harry's new girl? Romeo Prince is linked to American PR-girl Juliette after meeting her during New Year break in LA
Billion pound daddy's girl: She flew to school by helicopter. Now Britain's richest teen parties with Beckhams
Sartorially in sync: Newly-engaged Rosie Huntington-Whiteley goes braless as she and Jason Statham dress in all-black for London date
Has Charles and Diana's toxic divorce scared Harry off marriage for life? Will the terminally single royal will ever find love
Cara Delevingne brings her pooch to work again as she cops a cheeky feel of Ben Stiller's leather-clad posterior on hilarious Zoolander 2 promo in Paris
Trying to talk some sense into him? Kris Jenner pictured arriving to Blac Chyna's house after son Rob Kardashian moved in
'This Peach': Georgia May Foote cosies up to dancer beau Giovanni Pernice in sweet selfie as Strictly tour heats up
Brooklyn Beckham prepares to step behind the camera as he lands job as photographer for Burberry fragrance campaign
Look familiar? Dylan and brother Hopper Penn are the spitting image of parents Sean Penn and Robin Wright
Laid-back and fabulous: Newly-single Brooke Vincent steps out in figure-hugging black leggings and leather jacket
Going incognito! Salma Hayek covers up in parka and furry hat for coffee run in chilly NYC while on break from filming comedy
EXCLUSIVE 'She's a good girl': Stephanie Davis' dad reveals how proud he is of her... as he opens up family photo album
'When the goose is away, the hen will play': Tiffany Pollard admits she may pursue Jeremy McConnell if Stephanie Davis is evicted
Get a room! Minnie Driver and beau Nevill Wakefield can't keep their hands off each other as they enjoy a VERY long goodbye
No longer a Slave 4 U! Britney Spears shares open letter to men pleading for them to be more responsible with the hearts of women
Selena Gomez bares her midriff ahead of the Sundance premiere of her film The Fundamentals of Caring
'My family and I are deeply touched': Celine Dion thanks fans for support after funeral of her beloved husband Ren Angelil
He must have been Up All Night! One Direction's Louis Tomlinson grabs coffee as he takes break from baby son Freddie Reign
Busty Beyonc channels Bollywood beauty in an ornate sari and plunging gown in Coldplay's Mumbai-based Hymn For The Weekend video
Penny Lancaster makes toe-curling confession that she lets husband Rod Stewart know she's on her period by wearing a red BRACELET
'You better run if you see me!' Wiz Khalifa calls out Kanye West during concert in Chile following epic Twitter row
Is Stephanie Davis speaking to Sam Reece? CBB star bursts into tears over phonecall from mystery man... after packing on MORE PDA with Jeremy
Forget Mariah Carey's new bling! From Jackie Kennedy to Grace Kelly, infographic details the dazzling history of the world's most iconic engagement rings
'Hundreds-strong' mob of masked men rampage through Stockholm station beating up refugee children in revenge attack for female asylum centre worker killed by Somali 'boy'
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
