Harvard Offers Explanation for Search of E-Mail Accounts - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Education|Harvard Explains Why Staff E-Mails Were Searched
By RICHARD PREZ-PEA and JESS BIDGOODMARCH 11, 2013
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.  Harvard and its president on Monday made their first public comments on the universitys searching of staff members e-mail accounts, and offered a qualified apology for keeping the searches secret from most of the employees involved.
The episode has angered faculty members and refocused attention on Harvards largest cheating scandal in memory, which involved a take-home final exam in a government class last spring. After an investigation, about 70 students were forced to take a leave of absence.In September, when confidential information about cheating cases appeared in news reports, administrators ordered searches of the e-mail accounts of 16 resident deans, to find the source of the leaks.
Harvard E-Mail Search Stuns Faculty MembersMARCH 10, 2013
In an online statement posted Monday morning, university officials acknowledged the searches and explained their reasoning. The statement eased the concerns of some faculty members but did not alleviate them completely, and professors said they expected that e-mail privacy would be the topic of a full-throated discussion at the next faculty meeting, in early April.
Drew Gilpin Faust, the president of Harvard University.
In her first comment on the matter, Harvards president, Drew Gilpin Faust, said that she did not know about the searches at the time, but that having been apprised, I feel very comfortable that great care was taken to safeguard the privacy of all concerned.Faculty responses revealed a gap between expectations in academia, where privacy is often seen as integral to academic freedom, and the corporate world, in which employees are often told to assume that workplace e-mails are not private. Some professors wondered aloud whether they had been nave to think that things would be different at a university, and said they were forced to re-examine assumptions about confidentiality.Its disturbing because I dont know what it means about whether they could look at my own e-mail, said Oliver Hart, an economics professor. We need to have a discussion and a better understanding of the policy.He and other professors said the searches would prompt him to conduct more business through private e-mail accounts outside of Harvards reach.Most professors who agreed to discuss the matter on Monday insisted on anonymity, not wanting to run afoul of the administration. Several of them, conceding that the university had a legal right to conduct the searches, said the problem was, as one put it, that we never thought they would  we never thought about it at all, and we probably should have.One leak last year involved an e-mail from the universitys Administrative Board to resident deans, offering guidance on how to advise students accused of cheating. Some have questioned why such a minor breach prompted an investigation.But the statement posted Monday, attributed to Michael D. Smith, dean of the faculty of arts and sciences, and Evelynn M. Hammonds, dean of Harvard College, said administrators were more troubled by another leak, recounting closed-door discussions by the Administrative Board.
The disclosure of the document and nearly word-for-word disclosure of a confidential board conversation led to concerns that other information  especially student information we have a duty to protect as private  was at risk, the deans wrote.Resident deans live among students in Harvards residential houses and act as student advisers, and they are also lecturers, meaning that they teach courses but are not on a tenure track to professorship. Each one generally has a personal Harvard e-mail account and one specifically for the job of resident dean.The deans statement on Monday emphasized that the search was conducted only of the resident dean accounts, not personal ones, and only for the subject line on each message, to determine whether the confidential e-mail had been forwarded.The search determined that one resident dean had forwarded the e-mail to two students who were accused of cheating and had sought the deans advice.Deans Hammonds and Smith wrote that the resident dean who had forwarded the messages did so in good faith and was not punished. The statement did not say whether administrators determined how the e-mail found its way to the news media, or who was responsible for the other leak, of the Administrative Boards deliberations.That resident dean and one other were told about the e-mail searches shortly after they took place, administrators said, but the other 14 resident deans were not told until last week, after The Boston Globe inquired about the matter.They were not told to protect the privacy of the resident dean who had made an inadvertent error, Deans Hammonds and Smith wrote. We understand that others may see the situation differently, and we apologize if any resident deans feel our communication at the conclusion of the investigation was insufficient.On his blog, Michael Mitzenmacher, a computer science professor, wrote that he was satisfied with some parts of the administrations explanation, but in my opinion, the administration made an error in judgment in not telling the resident deans of the search.Wilfried Schmid, a mathematics professor, said he still wanted to know more about what happened. I certainly get the sense that many of my colleagues will be upset, and so there will be a discussion, he said.But he urged the faculty not to lose sight of what he considered the bigger issue, the cheating episode itself.
An article on Tuesday about Harvards explanation of why it searched staff members e-mail accounts misstated, in some copies and at several points, the surname of the dean of Harvard College. She is Evelynn M. Hammonds, not Hammond.
A version of this article appears in print on March 12, 2013, on page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Harvard Explains Why Staff E-Mails Were Searched.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
