F.B.I. Violated Rules in Obtaining Phone Records, Report Says - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|F.B.I. Violated Rules in Obtaining Phone Records, Report Says
F.B.I. Violated Rules in Obtaining Phone Records, Report Says
WASHINGTON  The Federal Bureau of Investigation improperly obtained calling records for more than 3,500 telephone accounts from 2003 to 2006 without following any legal procedures, according to a newly disclosed report by the Justice Departments inspector general.Instead, according to the 289-page report, F.B.I. agents informally requested the records from employees of three unidentified telephone companies who were stationed inside a bureau communications office.Based on nothing more than e-mail messages or scribbled requests on Post-it notes, the phone employees turned over customer calling records, the report said.On some occasions, the phone employees allowed the F.B.I. to upload call records to government databases. On others, they allowed agents to view records on their computer screens, a practice that became known as sneak peeks.Moreover, the report found that the F.B.I. improperly uploaded into its databases large numbers of calling records without determining whether they were relevant to an investigation.On four occasions, the bureau made inaccurate statements to a court that authorizes national security wiretaps about how it had obtained calling records, the report said.And agents twice improperly gained access to reporters calling records as part of leak investigations.The report was the third by the office of the inspector general, Glenn A. Fine, to examine problems with how the bureau collected calling records after the 2001 terrorist attacks.The two prior reports, in 2007 and 2008, covered problems with the use of administrative subpoenas called national security letters, and exigent letters  emergency records requests that were supposed to be followed up by formal subpoenas.The use of exigent letters became casual, the inspector found, with agents issuing them when there was no real emergency.The new report adds details to that account while disclosing the 3,500 additional instances in which F.B.I. agents got records without even exigent letters.In a statement released Wednesday, the F.B.I. said
that it had acknowledged repeatedly that it did not have in place adequate internal controls to ensure that appropriate process was used and that appropriate records were kept.The F.B.I. has dropped its use of exigent letters and instituted a stronger set of
record-keeping requirements. It has also stopped having phone company employees working in the same place as F.B.I. agents, the report said.
A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2010, on page A25 of the New York edition with the headline: F.B.I. Violated Rules in Obtaining Phone Records, Report Says.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
