France to Begin Test of Body Scanners - NYTimes.com
campaign: abTest_bar1_ft_upsell_inyt_0116 -- 282944, creative: abTest_bar1_ft_upsell_nyt_0116_ad -- 412102, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/europe/09europe.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/europe, position: Bar1
PARIS  With the European debate over the use of body scanners at airports intensifying, the French government said Friday that it would begin putting a handful of the scanners into place for testing at Charles de Gaulle and Orly airports to use for American-bound flights.
Europe Debates Use of Full-Body Scanners at Airports (January 8, 2010)
French officials said that one would be installed at Charles de Gaulle by the end of January, and that five or six more would be introduced there and at Orly over the following weeks.
The body scans  which will complement metal-detection and baggage X-ray devices  will not be mandatory, said Alexandre Crozat, director of the office of security measures at Frances civil aviation authority, but passengers who refuse them will be required to undergo pat-down searches. He did not say how long the scanners would be tested. The failed attempt to bring down a plane flying from Amsterdam to Detroit on Dec. 25 has raised security concerns at airports around the world. On Thursday, President Obama directed the Homeland Security Department to speed the installation of body scanners at American airports and to work with international airports to see that they upgrade their own equipment.
But European governments are sharply divided about the scanners, which allow security agents to see virtually naked images of passengers. Many officials and privacy advocates express deep concerns that the process is overly intrusive. The technology is also expensive: the machines cost about $190,000 apiece.On Thursday, a committee of European Union aviation safety experts agreed in a closed-door meeting in Brussels on the need for a unified approach to enhancing security, but it was clear that they were divided on what role the scanners should have. Belgiums secretary of state for transportation, Etienne Schouppe, has described them as excessive. Spain and Germany have also expressed strong reservations.Britain, meanwhile, plans to introduce body scanners in its airports by the end of the month; tests have begun at Heathrow in London, and at airports in Manchester and other sites. Italy has also said it will use the technology.Sophie in t Veld, a Dutch member of the European Parliament and an expert on privacy issues, expressed concern that some member states were rushing to use scanners without first allowing for a thoughtful public debate. These are ad hoc measures, without the governments having any clear idea of what exactly they are trying to achieve, she said Friday in a telephone interview.I understand that the public is clamoring for instant solutions, Ms. in t Veld said. Scanners and other technologies can be very useful tools in the fight against terrorism, but they are no more than that. Ideally, people with bad intentions should be identified long before they pass through an airports final security checkpoint, she said.The suspect in the thwarted bombing last month flew from Ghana to Nigeria to the Netherlands, boarding the flight to Detroit at Schiphol Airport, outside Amsterdam. In the days after the attack was foiled, the United States and the Netherlands pointed fingers at each other over why the airport, which has 15 of the scanners, had not been using them. Dutch authorities said that Washington had not given permission, while the American authorities said no such permission was necessary.In any case, the Dutch announced within days that the scanners would be used for all United States-bound flights from Schiphol by the end of the month.
Past CoverageEurope Debates Use of Full-Body Scanners at Airports(January 8, 2010)ITINERARIES; Paper Is Out, Cellphones Are In(March 18, 2008)In Airline Baggage Roulette, Travelers' Odds Are Getting Worse(November 21, 2007)U.S. Again Rejects A Shoe Scanner(October 10, 2007)
The Saturday Profile: German Forest Ranger Finds That Trees Have Social Networks, Too
Editorial: Hillary Clinton for the Democratic Nomination
The New Old Age: Study Finds Growing Reason to Be Wary of Some Reflux Drugs
Op-Ed Contributor: Elizabeth Warren: One Way to Rebuild Our Institutions
Drug Shortages Forcing Hard Decisions on Rationing Treatments
After 124 Years, the Russian and Turkish Baths Are Still a Hot Spot
Editorial: Hillary Clinton for the Democratic Nomination
Unions Lean Democratic, but Donald Trump Gets Members Attention
Donald Trumps Twitter Insults: The Complete List (So Far)
Ted Cruz Endures More Hits From Rivals After Tough Debate
The Saturday Profile: German Forest Ranger Finds That Trees Have Social Networks, Too
Tears and Bewilderment in Brazilian City Facing Zika Crisis
Oregon Town Torn Apart by Protest at Wildlife Refuge
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/europe/09europe.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/world/europe, position: Inv1
