Google Responds to Google+ Account Suspension Controversy
CompanyAbout UsLicensing & ReprintsArchiveMashable Careers
SitesMashable ShopJob BoardEventsSocial Good SummitMedia Summit
Google Responds to Google+ Account Suspension Controversy
Using Google+? Add Mashable to your circles. You'll get the latest about new Google+ features and tips and tricks for using the platform as well as top social media and technology news.
Google has finally made a public statement about the recent wave of controversial Google+ account suspensions designed to enforce the company's "common name" policy.
The policy is outlined in section 13 of the company's User Content and Conduct Policy. It's designed to stop users from creating fake profiles and to set a positive tone. Section 13 reads as follows:
"To help fight spam and prevent fake profiles, use the name your friends, family or co-workers usually call you. For example, if your full legal name is Charles Jones Jr. but you normally use Chuck Jones or Junior Jones, either of those would be acceptable."
This weekend, Google started enforcing the policy, deleting a large number of Google+ accounts. While some of the suspended accounts were indeed fake profiles, others like Limor "Ladyada" Fried and lifestyle blogger A.V. Flox were accidentally deleted and quickly restored.
SEE ALSO: GOOGLE+: THE COMPLETE GUIDE | VIDEOS | REVIEW
Google SVP of Social Vic Gundotra admitted to Robert Scoble on Sunday that the company has made some mistakes with its first attempt at cracking down on fake profiles. And Monday, Google VP of Product Bradley Horowitz wrote a more detailed post in an attempt to clear the air and set the record straight.
"Weve noticed that many violations of the Google+ common name policy were in fact well-intentioned and inadvertent and for these users our process can be frustrating and disappointing," Horowitz said in his Google+ post. "So were currently making a number of improvements to this process, specifically regarding how we notify these users that theyre not in compliance with Google+ policies and how we communicate the remedies available to them."
- Google will give users more warning and the chance to comply with the common name policy.- The company is improving the signup process.- Finally, the search giant is exploring better ways to support nicknames, maiden names and pseudonyms.
Horowitz also took time to dispel the rumor that a suspension of a Google+ account means that a user loses his or her access to Gmail, Google Docs or other Google services. "When an account is suspended for violating the Google+ common name standards, access to Gmail or other products that dont require a Google+ profile are not removed," he said.
Google+, which will hit its one-month anniversary on Thursday, has clearly been suffering from growing pains. It has received strong criticism for its handling of Google+ brand pages.
Bradley Horowitz, Common Names, Google, robert scoble, Social Media, social networking, Vic Gundotra
is a leading global media company that informs, inspires and entertains the digital generation. Mashable is redefining storytelling by documenting and shaping the digital revolution in a new voice, new formats and cutting-edge technologies to a uniquely dedicated audience of 45 million monthly unique visitors and 26 million social followers.
Reproduction without explicit permission is prohibited. All Rights Reserved.
