Microsoft Will Remove “Do Not Track” As The Default Setting In Its New Browsers
9th Annual CrunchiesPrices Increase On Wednesday For The Tech Awards Show Of The Year
ScribbleLive Acquires Visually To Combine Their Content Marketing Tools
Microsoft Beats On Strong Cloud Revenue With $25.7B Revenue, $0.78 EPS
Office Online Gets Real-Time Collaboration For Files Hosted By Microsoft Partners
Spartan DX: Come for the DNA Testing, Stay for the iPod Nano
Microsoft Today Ends Support For Windows 8, Old Versions Of Internet Explorer
Google Will Stop Supporting Chrome For Windows XP, Vista And Older Versions Of OS X By April 2016
Mozilla CEO Sends Angry Open Letter To Microsoft Over Changing Windows 10 Browser Defaults
Microsoft Will Remove “Do Not Track” As The Default Setting In Its New Browsers
Posted Apr 3, 2015 by Frederic Lardinois (@fredericl)
Weekends Are The Best Time To Promote Most Apps, Study Finds
Microsoft today announced that going forward, it will not turn on the “Do Not Track” feature in the upcoming versions of Internet Explorer and Spartan by default.
The “Do Not Track” setting in many popular browsers tells websites and their advertisers that you want to opt out of third-party tracking for advertising purposes. All of the major browser vendors, including Google, Mozilla, Opera, Apple and Microsoft, support this feature, but whether advertisers honor the user’s request — and it’s no more than a request sent by the browser — is up to them. And most probably don’t.
Microsoft started enabling “Do Not Track” as the default setting with the launch of Internet Explorer 10. Unsurprisingly, this created a bit of a controversy. Previous to Microsoft’s decision, advertisers had agreed to honor Do Not Track, as long as it wasn’t the default setting. They argued that the decision not to be tracked should be made by the user and not the browser vendor. Microsoft stuck to its guns saying users could always opt out during the setup process, and “Do Not Track” remained the default — until now (and the number of advertisers that honored it remained low).
Chrome and Firefox leave “Do Not Track” off by default.
Today, the company is reversing its stand. Microsoft Chief Privacy Officer Brendon Lynch argues that it’s doing so in order to comply with the latest draft of the official W3C standard for “Do Not Track.” This new draft explicitly notes that “the signal sent MUST reflect the user’s preference, not the choice of some vendor, institution, site or network-imposed mechanism outside the user’s control; this applies equally to both the general preference and exceptions.”
“Put simply, we are updating our approach to DNT to eliminate any misunderstanding about whether our chosen implementation will comply with the W3C standard,” Lynch writes today. “Without this change, websites that receive a DNT signal from the new browsers could argue that it doesn’t reflect the users’ preference, and therefore, choose not to honor it.”
Given the voluntary nature of “Do Not Track,” it probably doesn’t matter all that much whether you turn it on or off anyway. If you want to make sure you aren’t tracked, using tools like Disconnect  and add-ons like Ghostery, uBlock and the EFF’s Privacy Badger is more effective anyway — at least on the desktop.
Featured Image: Perin J-C/Flickr UNDER A CC BY 2.0 LICENSE
Microsoft is an American multinational corporation that develops, manufactures, licenses, supports and sells computer software, consumer electronics and personal computers and services. Its best known software products are the [Microsoft Windows line of operating systems](/product/windows), [Microsoft Office office suite](/product/microsoft-office), and [Internet Explorer](http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/internet-explorer/download-ie) …
Apple Reportedly Creating Long-Range Wireless Charging Tech | Crunch Report
China Just Released True Color HD Photos Of The Moon
President Obama Wants $4 Billion To Bring Computer Science Education To Every K-12 School
Onfleet Has Powered Over 1 Million On-Demand Deliveries
How The Growth Of Mixed Reality Will Change Communication, Collaboration And The Future Of The Workplace
Telegraph Academy Bootcamp Teaches People Of Color How To Code
China Just Released True Color HD Photos Of The Moon
Weekends Are The Best Time To Promote Most Apps, Study Finds
Subscribe to <span class="no-mobile">Subscribe to </span>TechCrunch Daily
China Just Released True Color HD Photos Of The Moon
How The Growth Of Mixed Reality Will Change Communication, Collaboration And The Future Of The Workplace
Onfleet Has Powered Over 1 Million On-Demand Deliveries
Tesla Says CEO Elon Musk Just Bought More of The Company
