DAILY NEWSNew YorkNewsPoliticsSportsEntertainmentOpinionLivingAutos
U.S. WORLD CRIME THE WEEK NEWS PICS BLOGS
Google glitch: Chat users complain messages are going to the wrong recipients
The Internet search giant began receiving complaints Thursday from some users who said their chat messages were being routed to the wrong people. Some users of Google Talk trying to communicate with those on Google Hangout were finding problems with the service. But Google says service has begun returning to normal.
BY ERIK ORTIZ    NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Thursday, September 26, 2013, 10:27 AM A A A
facebook69Tweetemail
Users reported that messages sent via Google's chat features were going to the wrong recipients Thursday.
JENSON/BLOOMBERG
Users reported that messages sent via Google's chat features were going to the wrong recipients Thursday.
Google's chat features went haywire Thursday, routing some users messages to the wrong recipients.

After receiving reports about a Google glitch, the Internet search giant said it was working on the problem and its services "are gradually returning to normal.

We will update when full service is restored, Google later said on its Service Status Dashboard page.

The Internet brand didn't immediately explain the reason for the defect in its messaging platform, but the bug appears to be messing with folks who use Google Talk and are trying to communicate with those using the upgraded Google Hangout, TechCrunch reported.

Those affected are venting online about the messaging mix up  with some saying it is compromising their privacy and creating a terrifying situation.


Privacy remains a touchy subject for Google, which earlier this year agreed to settle with 38 states which sued after the companys Street View mapping cars were found to have collected peoples personal data.

	Google settled a suit with 38 states and D.C. after its Street View mapping venture came under fire for collecting people's personal data via WiFi.
The Mountain View, Calif.-based Internet company settled a suit with 38 states and D.C. after its Street View mapping venture came under fire for collecting people's personal data via WiFi.
Googles Gmail program has also been criticized after an outraged watchdog group said the company is reading users emails.

Google doesnt deny scanning emails for advertising purposes but has said it uses an algorithm and that no humans read your email.

eortiz@nydailynews.com

RELATED STORIES
Google on hot seat over Gmail users privacy
JOIN THE CONVERSATION: facebook 
twitter
 
email
  by Taboola Sponsored Links PROMOTED STORIES