Security Issues Shut Down Downtown Copter Shuttle - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
N.Y. / Region|Security Issues Shut Down Downtown Copter Shuttle
U.S. Helicopter, the only company shuttling travelers from heliports in Manhattan to local airports, was already in dire financial straits, but a decision by city officials has left the air-shuttle operator unable to fly to or from its base of operations near Wall Street.The problem involves FirstFlight, a small aviation company that city officials selected to manage the Downtown Manhattan Heliport. That company, which had no experience operating an urban heliport or airport, took over operations at the downtown heliport on Nov. 1. But it still has not obtained the federal Transportation Security Administration’s approval of its plan for maintaining security there.Without an approved security plan, FirstFlight cannot serve U.S. Helicopter’s passengers, who had been clearing security at the heliport and bypassing the screening lines at Kennedy International and Newark Liberty International
airports. U.S. Helicopter has been telling passengers that the disruption was only temporary, but it has stretched into its fourth week and may last a few more, according to Lara Uselding, a spokeswoman for the security administration.
The suspension was previously reported by the travel Web site NewYorkology.The absence of a security plan has left the security administration’s crew at the heliport with no luggage or passengers to screen. The federal agency assigned a screening team to the heliport before U.S. Helicopter began operating there in early 2006, just as the agency reduced staffing at the region’s three major airports.(On Wednesday, the screeners were temporarily reassigned to La Guardia Airport to help handle the holiday rush, Ms. Uselding said.)
That setup allowed U.S. Helicopter’s customers, who paid as much as $159 for an eight-minute ride, to clear security in Manhattan and fly directly to secure areas of the airports.Until Nov. 1, the company was running flights from two heliports — one near Wall Street and another at the east end of 34th Street — to Kennedy and Newark. For the past few weeks, travelers who live or work in Lower Manhattan have had to travel more than three miles uptown to the East 34th Street Heliport to board a U.S. Helicopter flight.U.S. Helicopter had ambitious plans to expand the service to La Guardia and a third heliport on the West Side of Manhattan, then to other cities, including Chicago and Los Angeles. But demand for the service has been weak, and the company has had trouble financing its growth.
Charter and tourist helicopter flights still use the Downtown Manhattan Heliport, but airport shuttles use an East Side port.
As its losses have piled up, the company has been borrowing to stay in business at interest rates as high as 15 percent, according to its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Earlier this year, the company’s auditors expressed doubt about its ability to continue operating.It was unclear how much U.S. Helicopter had suffered from being barred from using its downtown heliport or how long the company could survive without it. Donal McSullivan, the company’s chief marketing officer, did not respond to messages left on his cellphone and at the company’s offices.U.S. Helicopter’s troubles were compounded when the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey stopped managing the downtown heliport on Oct. 31. City officials had expected FirstFlight, which won the contract to operate the heliport over several other bidders, to take over without disruption, said David Lombino, a spokesman for the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which oversaw the bidding.But the company did not draw up a security plan of its own and seek the Transportation Security Administration’s approval until the Port Authority’s managers were leaving the heliport and taking their security plan with them, aviation officials said.Paul Dudley, owner of Linden Airport Management Corporation in New Jersey, an unsuccessful bidder, sued the Economic Development Corporation in state and federal courts and appealed to city officials, arguing, among other things, that FirstFlight was unqualified to operate the heliport. The failure to obtain the required federal approval was proof that he was right, Mr. Dudley said in an interview.
“The city should have canceled them immediately because they failed to meet a principal and fundamental requirement of the contract,” Mr. Dudley said.Ronald J. Ricciardi, vice chairman of FirstFlight, did not respond to a request for comment.“Any new entity that would be a new operator would hopefully understand the importance of security in the New York City area and should expect to comply with Congressional mandates for upholding the highest levels of security,” Ms. Uselding said.She added that the security administration was working with FirstFlight officials and hoped to have an acceptable security plan drawn up “in the coming weeks.”In the meantime, the downtown heliport has remained open for the sightseeing and charter flights by other companies that account for most of the traffic there, Mr. Lombino said. “The transition to FirstFlight has been otherwise seamless, and the heliport has been operating in a safe and efficient manner.”
about a security issue that has prevented U.S. Helicopter from shuttling passengers between the Downtown Manhattan Heliport and the New York region’s airports omitted credit for an online travel site that previously reported the news. It is NewYorkology.com.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: Security Issues Shut Down Downtown Copter Shuttle.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
