2 Bronx Synagogues in Bomb Plot to Get Federal Funds for Security - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
N.Y. / Region|2 Synagogues to Get Money for Security
Calling the arrests of four men in a plot to bomb two Bronx synagogues “a shocking recognition that we still live in a time of terrorism,” Gov. David A. Paterson announced
on Sunday that each congregation would be awarded $25,000 in federal money to improve its
security.“We all want to live in peace, but we know that involves added protection,” Mr. Paterson said at a news conference at the Riverdale Jewish Center, one of the synagogues marked in the plot.The four men, all of Newburgh, N.Y., were arrested on May 20 by F.B.I. agents after authorities said they planted what they believed to be bombs in cars outside the Jewish Center, an Orthodox synagogue, and the nearby Riverdale Temple, which has a Reform congregation. They were also accused of planning to shoot down military planes at an Air National Guard base in Newburgh.The governor said the money, from the Department of Homeland Security, would be distributed to each institution to install alarms and surveillance equipment.“The synagogues stand for peace and tolerance,” Mr. Paterson added. Denise E. O’Donnell, the governor’s deputy secretary for public safety, said the money would be available “in a couple of weeks.”
Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, who was with the governor in Riverdale, said
the bomb plot displayed the vulnerability of religious institutions.She noted that the Urban Areas Security Initiative, a homeland security grant program, provided money to organizations
at a high risk of a terrorist attack, but that fewer than half of eligible applicants received financing this year. To remedy that, she said she had requested an additional $25 million for the program. In addition to money, “we need interfaith dialogue” among local religious leaders, she said.Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, the center’s senior rabbi, urged the community to “keep life safe” for the children of the bombing suspects. “We can’t dry up any kind of homegrown terror without first drying up poverty,” he said.Also at the news conference
Assemblyman Jeffrey Dinowitz, who represents Riverdale.Mr. Paterson said Mr. Dinowitz approached him with the idea of requesting security financing for the synagogues. Mr. Dinowitz told the crowd that
he was disturbed by “the fact that there were four hateful people who wanted to kill as many people as possible — as many Jews as possible.”
A version of this article appears in print on , on page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: 2 Synagogues To Get Money For Security.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
