What to Expect as the T.S.A. Tightens Airport Security - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|What to Expect as T.S.A. Tightens Airport Security
The best way to prepare for the new security measures at the airport? Pretty much as you did for the old rules, experts say.That means becoming familiar with the Transportation Security Administration rules on what is allowed in carry-on and checked bags. A detailed list of the rules for items like liquids, holiday foods and gifts — don’t wrap them — is available at www.tsa.gov.And then, when waiting in line at the security checkpoint, use the time to prepare.“Have your Ziploc bag on top, take your laptop out of your carry-on and put it on top in the gray bin, and that makes things go a lot faster,” said Michael Conway, a spokesman for the Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport.As for traveling families, David Magaña, a spokesman for
Dallas Fort Worth International Airport, suggested this:
“Talk to your children. Envision the whole trip and pretend it all out so they understand they’re going to go through the magnetometer by themselves so they understand what they are going to see.”But perhaps the most important piece of advice is not to overreact. Don’t get to the airport hours before your flight. It won’t help, and it may even cause more problems.
“What we’ve been seeing over the last four days is a huge clump of people in the morning,” Mr. Conway said. “These experts are saying ‘show up at the airport four hours before your flight.’ It’s not necessary. There’s a huge clump of people checking in at 6 a.m. creating an artificial backup.”Suzanne Treviño, the T.S.A. spokeswoman at Los Angeles International Airport, reminded travelers
to make sure prohibited items were not unintentionally packed.“We’re finding passengers that mistakenly left items like ammunition and knives and other things they used on a camping trip or hunting trip,” Mrs. Treviño said.Even items in checked bags can cause delays.A traveler in Phoenix packed a belt adorned with a rhinestone-encrusted hand grenade,
Mrs. Treviño said. A bomb appraisal unit had to be called in to examine the bag.
A security checkpoint at Newark International Airport. Experts say to be prepared for new safety measures, but not to overreact.
“We encourage passengers to think about what they are wearing and putting into their baggage that might cause unwittingly a security incident for us,” Mrs. Treviño said.But preparing for any new security measures is not straightforward. The T.S.A. has purposely been vague about what travelers will encounter, other than more police at the airport and additional layers of security.“Passengers should be prepared for additional measures of security, but we can’t say what they are,” said Lauren Gaches,
a spokeswoman for the T.S.A.The stepped-up security will be most obvious on international flights bound for the United States. Passengers will be searched twice: at the main security checkpoint and again at the gate.
“T.S.A. requires additional checks of the passengers and cabin baggage,” said Olivier Jankovec, director general of the Airports Council International Europe.“It is a solution for an emergency like what we are going through, but it cannot be sustainable from an operational point of view on an ongoing basis,” Mr. Jankovec said.It will be up to the pilots on those flights to decide whether to restrict passenger movement or the use of blankets or other items often held on passengers’ laps during the last hour of flight. Some airlines are turning off in-flight audio and video navigation programs that let passengers know the status of the flight.The T.S.A. also issued a last-minute extension to hundreds of pilots authorized to carry firearms under the Federal Flight Deck Officers Program.One airline captain said that before his flight left
a European airport recently, he walked down one aisle of the airplane and back up the other, greeting each passenger.“I wanted to have a bit of two-way interface about who was on board,” said the pilot, who did not want to be identified because he was not permitted by his airline to speak to the press. “I wanted to see who wanted to make eye contact and see that everyone is acting vaguely normal.”
A version of this article appears in print on January 2, 2010, on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: What to Expect as Airport Security Rules Are Tightened.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
