New Routine for Airports: Contradictions, Delays - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|New Routine for Airports: Contradictions, Delays
Security lines were short at the airport in Denver on Wednesday. For many traveling to the United States, it was a different story.
CHICAGO — As he arrived at O’Hare International airport here on Wednesday, Dennis Weyrauch, a passenger, described two hours of waiting and scrutiny at the airport in Amsterdam before his plane took off: as happened to all passengers on his flight, his carry-on bag was searched methodically by hand, the insides of bottles in his toilet kit studied and his body patted down.“It was thorough; it was extensive; it felt like a police pat down,” said Mr. Weyrauch, who is 53 and a lawyer from Eagle, Idaho. “It seemed excessive to tell you the truth. I didn’t get any additional measure of comfort from the security measures, and I wondered, as a practical matter, how long they’re going to be able to do this.”At airports around the country nearly two weeks after a thwarted terrorism attempt on a flight to Detroit, dozens of travelers told of remarkably different experiences with security measures. For domestic flights, many noticed little new, aside from more police dogs in terminals and, in some instances, random pat-downs and bag checks.But for those traveling on international flights to the United States, changes were far more pronounced. Lines were long, triple, sometimes quadruple checks were conducted, papers were scrutinized and nearly everyone told of being patted down.“If it were like this all the time,” Mr. Weyrauch said of the time expended, “I would reconsider how often I travel.”
For the most part, people seemed patient, even appreciative of the extra security efforts, but others were left exasperated, confused and, mostly, late.At Newark Liberty International Airport, Leroy Cowell arrived an entire day behind schedule. A security check in Jamaica initially delayed his plane, he said, then a subsequent two-hour security check in Miami made him miss a connecting flight. Gifts for his mother, two fried fish, were spoiled.“It will keep people safer, but it is too much checking, too much holding up,” Mr. Cowell, 38, said. “They don’t move fast enough.”Airline companies say it is too early to know whether people will change their flying patterns, but data from the 10 days after the Christmas incident
showed a significant increase in delays and canceled flights at some major airports in the United States and overseas compared with the same periods the two years before.Some airports were hit by storms, but the data from FlightStats, a company that compiles statistics on airports and airlines, also suggests that the mounting security measures may have had a major effect on delays.Travelers flying out Wednesday, meanwhile, said they were still uncertain what to expect at airports, despite the number of days that had passed since the failed attack and the stepped up, but shifting, security efforts from the federal Transportation Security Administration. Some domestic passengers found themselves selected randomly for body pat-downs at airports in places like Wichita, Kan., while most were not.
Anthony Baker spent much of Wednesday at Kennedy Airport in New York after bag screening made him miss a connection.
And other seeming contradictions emerged: Susannah Kassmer said she was ordered to take out her musical instrument, a type of bagpipe, from its case and to play it to prove its purpose before being allowed to board a flight from Dusseldorf to Newark. Yet Anthony Aguirre, another traveler, said he was patted down before boarding his flight from O’Hare, but that screeners overlooked a bottle containing a chocolate martini in the back pocket of his loose-fitting pants.Overseas, especially, the “pat down” was the norm, even for people from countries other than the 14 the United States has identified for extra screening. Still, travelers described vastly differing versions — from an awkwardly thorough, even invasive, search that included private areas to a light brush over.
“They seemed more uncomfortable patting people down than the people being patted down seemed,” said Caritha Curti, who had traveled with her daughter from Tokyo to Newark and on to Boston. “I thought if I really had something concealed they wouldn’t have noticed.”On Wednesday, a T.S.A. official confirmed that the agency had asked airlines to modify the way they do pat downs for flights headed to the United States. The official would not describe the exact directive, citing security concerns, but said it asks airlines, internationally, to do a “full body pat down” and that the request was more comprehensive than it had been before.“We can’t talk about the nature of our pat-down techniques,” said the official who was not authorized to speak about the protocol and asked not to be named. “But I can confirm that what is in place is more than what was being done before to international standards.”Vincent Gesquiere, who flew home to Atlanta from Brussels on Wednesday, said screeners had asked him to open his belt buckle and offered a warning. “He said, ‘We’re going to be very close to some private parts of your body,’ ” Mr. Gesquiere said. In the end, he did not find the process bothersome, he said, and in fact, said he felt comforted by the high level of caution.In dozens of interviews around the country, delays, long lines and missed planes seemed more troubling for now.At Kennedy International Airport, Anthony Baker said he had managed the unique restrictions of his flight from Dubai — a full body pat down and a rule barring carry-on bags — without a problem. But at Kennedy, Mr. Baker, a law professor from North Carolina, had missed his morning connecting flight to Raleigh-Durham International Airport while his bags were
being screened.By Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Baker was still waiting for another flight. He was said he was frustrated, but not outraged. “It’s not the end of the world,” he said, a book and a solitaire game beside him.Some said the uncertainties of what to expect now
left them unsure about how they may feel about flying in a few months.
Nick Winter, 46, artistic administrator of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, flew here on Wednesday from London, where a snowstorm had hit. In the midst of the storm, Mr. Winter said he realized he had no sense of when to leave for the airport or how early would be early enough for the new security, and had wondered for a moment about the headache of the whole thing.“Once people get familiar with the new systems, they’ll get used to it,” he said. “But I did have that thought — Do I really need the hassle?”
Reporting was contributed by Robbie Brown from Atlanta, Dan Frosch from Denver, Katie Zezima from Boston, Emma Graves Fitzsimmons from Chicago, Eric Lipton from Washington, Sarah Maslin Nir from Newark, Micheline Maynard from Detroit and Manny Fernandez from New York.
A version of this article appears in print on January 7, 2010, on page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: New Routine for Airports: Contradictions and Delays.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
