Bomb Plot Changed Fliers’ Habits, Ounce by Liquid Ounce - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Europe|Plot’s Legacy for Air Travel, Measured in Fluid Ounces
Plot’s Legacy for Air Travel, Measured in Fluid Ounces
Three years ago, when British authorities arrested 24 men they said were planning to bring down airliners by detonating bomb cocktails blended on board from seemingly innocuous liquids, security officials drew up measures to pre-empt such an attack even before they knew whether the bomb plot was workable.American officials immediately prohibited passengers from carrying on liquids, giving no advance warning to travelers arriving at airports on the first day of the new policy. Many had to throw out the shampoo, cosmetics and mouthwash in their carry-on luggage, or miss their flights.Security experts had long recognized the possibility of making a bomb from liquids. But in August 2006, when the arrests were made, security at passenger checkpoints focused mostly on detecting metals.Six weeks after the ban, American officials began allowing passengers to carry on one quart-size zip-top bag holding three-ounce or smaller containers. Officials said later that they had sent a staff member to a drugstore to confirm that products were available in such sizes.The Web site of the Transportation Security Administration
lists 58 countries, including Cyprus, Fiji and Britain, with similar rules. In fact, the rules are set on a metric standard; the American rule is now 3.4 ounces, equivalent to 100 milliliters.
The rules created sometimes bizarre distinctions; for example, Transportation Security officers told travelers that underarm deodorant that was colored was a solid and not subject to the limit, but that if it was clear, it could be considered a gel and thus subject to the restriction.Preparing for the first Thanksgiving after the ban took effect, Kip Hawley, then in charge of the Transportation Security Administration, answered a question about how his agency would treat dinner leftovers carried home by travelers, including ambiguous substances like cranberry sauce. “If you dump it out on the table and it retains its form,” he said, “it’s not a liquid, aerosol or gel.”Over time, some rules were relaxed. Travelers were allowed to buy beverages to carry on after being screened in the “sterile area” of the terminal. Breast milk, medicines and some other liquids are now allowed in what the security agency calls “reasonable quantities.”
Garbage bins for discarded or confiscated items have become a fixture at security checkpoints.Advice on how to pack liquids is still the main item on the Transportation Security Administration’s Web site, which also boasts of a drug seizure in August, in which an inspector took a closer look at a case of 12 bottles supposedly containing iced tea, brought as checked baggage by a passenger in Long Beach, Calif.; they were eventually determined to be filled with LSD, the agency said.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Plot’s Legacy for Air Travel, Measured in Fluid Ounces.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
