Few Worry About Overreaction on Jet - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
WASHINGTON — When an illicit pipe and a foolish joke aboard an airliner touches off a national megascare, scrambling fighter jets and F.B.I. agents, alerting all 4,900 flights in progress and unleashing a media flood, does that mean the security system works?Or was the reaction to an Arab diplomat’s ill-timed smoke break aboard a flight to Denver on Wednesday night overkill, unnecessarily alarming the entire country, inconveniencing passengers and squandering the taxpayers’ money?Assessing the government and media response was complicated by the revelation on Thursday that the Qatari diplomat, Mohammed al-Madadi, was on his way to make a routine consular visit to a convicted agent of Al Qaeda, a citizen of Qatar who is imprisoned in Colorado.But officials said that they learned the purpose of the diplomat’s travels well after the plane landed, and that they did not believe Mr. Madadi had any ties to terrorism. Still, the bizarre coincidence only underscored a widespread view that the huge response was justified.“From a counterterrorism standpoint, the system worked perfectly,” said Kip Hawley, who served as administrator of the Transportation Security Administration under the Bush administration from 2005 to 2009. “The T.S.A. and counterterrorism officials are on high alert for a very good reason. Al Qaeda is going to use pregnant women, people with babies, and it is not out of the realm of possibility that they will use a diplomat.”
The possibility of overreaction to perceived threats is by now a familiar problem in the age of terrorism, when a little powdered sugar can set off an anthrax panic or a Coast Guard training exercise can persuade cable television crews that the nation’s capital may be under attack, as occurred last Sept. 11. In this case, however, there seemed to be little second-guessing of the broad security alert in response to a situation that ultimately turned out to have posed no significant threat.“As far as I have heard, the passengers, crew and authorities all acted calmly and appropriately,” said Ian S. Lustick, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania and author of “Trapped in the War on Terror,” a 2006 book that criticized what he called the exaggerated response to terrorism. Continue reading the main story
Law enforcement, Homeland Security and airline industry officials, who would speak about the investigation only on condition of anonymity, described what happened aboard United Flight 663 from Reagan National Airport in Washington to Denver. Some details about the flight, which carried 157 passengers and six crew members, varied in different officials’ accounts on Thursday night.
Terrence McClain of the T.S.A. watched United Airlines check-in on Thursday at Reagan National Airport in Washington.
Mr. Madadi, 27, a third secretary at Qatar’s embassy in Washington, was confronted by a flight attendant who smelled smoke as he left the forward lavatory near the cockpit.The flight attendant alerted a federal air marshal on board, and when challenged, Mr. Madadi denied smoking but admitted he had a pipe and made a joking reference to trying to set his shoes on fire.The authorities feared a repeat of the attempted bombing of a Detroit-bound airliner on Dec. 25, in which a Nigerian passenger has been accused of trying to assemble explosives hidden in his underwear during a trip to the bathroom. In that case, the would-be bomb fizzled and the man, who later said he had been trained by the Qaeda affiliate in Yemen, ended up burning only himself.The episode on Wednesday evening seemed to echo the Christmas Day events, which led to a sharp increase in the deployment of air marshals, who pose as ordinary passengers and “break cover” only when there is a security threat.After the flight attendant and a passenger who followed Mr. Madadi into the lavatory both smelled smoke, the passenger found a bag of what the authorities said was tobacco.
One of the two air marshals on the flight then approached Mr. Madadi at his seat in the first-class section, showing his badge and identifying himself as a federal agent. Mr. Madadi said he had not been smoking but acknowledged that the bag contained tobacco for his pipe.It was then that he made the remark about setting his shoes on fire, evidently a nervous joke referring to the 2001 episode in which Richard Reid tried to ignite explosives hidden in his shoe during a trans-Atlantic flight.Within a few minutes, top Transportation Security officials were on a conference call, the Federal Aviation Administration had alerted the pilots of the thousands of flights then in the air of the possible threat, an F.B.I. team had begun to assemble in Denver, and airport authorities positioned fire and safety equipment for the landing there, which took place at 6:54 p.m. Norad sent the fighter jets to accompany the plane for the final segment of its route.
Intelligence agencies, meanwhile, checked their files for information not only on Mr. Madadi, but on the other passengers as well, because security officials had to consider the possibility that a team of terrorists was on the flight.With thousands of government officials and pilots now aware of what initially appeared to be a possible attempted terrorist attack, news organizations began to get tips and to respond with alarming reports. “Air Marshals Stop Alleged ‘Shoe Bomb’ Attempt,” said a headline on ABC News, which had one of the first reports.Other networks and newspaper Web sites quickly followed, and for an hour or two the reports continued. By about 8:30 Denver time, after the authorities failed to find any explosives, news media reports shifted to calling the episode a false alarm.On Thursday, officials confirmed that Mr. Madadi had been headed to the maximum security prison in Florence, Colo., for a routine monthly visit to Ali Saleh Kahlah al-Marri, a Qatari citizen who admitted last year that he entered the United States on Sept. 10, 2001, on the orders of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the chief planner of the Sept. 11 attacks. Mr. Marri was arrested in December 2001.Initially charged in the criminal system, he was then moved to the military system and held in a military jail in South Carolina. Finally he was moved back to federal criminal court, where he pleaded guilty last year and was sentenced to eight years in prison.
But the Qaeda connection appeared to be a red herring. P. J. Crowley, a State Department spokesman, said that such prison visits were routine and that permitting them was an obligation under international agreements.“We demand the same right of consular visits for our citizens who are imprisoned anywhere in the world,” Mr. Crowley said.Mr. Madadi’s words on the flight were a vivid confirmation of the ubiquitous airport signs that have warned passengers for decades against joking about bombs and other security issues. Though Mr. Madadi has diplomatic immunity and therefore cannot be prosecuted for violating the smoking ban aboard aircraft, he could be expelled from the United States.An American official said Qatari Embassy officials had headed off such a step by saying that Mr. Madadi would leave for Qatar soon. On Thursday, after he was interviewed by F.B.I. agents and released, he returned to Washington — but not on United. In view of his conduct, said a United spokeswoman, Jean Medina, her airline decided not to honor his return ticket.
Matthew L. Wald contributed reporting from Washington, and Michael Slackman from Doha, Qatar.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
