T.S.A.’s Secure Flight Is Working Smoothly So Far - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|The Rules on Names Could Bend a Little
THE Transportation Security Administration and the airline industry are trying to address public anxiety over how the new Secure Flight identity-matching program will affect travelers. The program is rolling out smoothly, the airlines say.“We believe that the Secure Flight implementation is working quite well,” said David A. Castelveter, a spokesman for the Air Transport Association. “We have seen no significant interruption to travel.”The next phase of the program comes after airlines get their reservations and other customer information in order early next year. That is when passengers’ full names are expected to be the same on reservations, boarding passes and government-issued identification.“The airlines have done a fairly good job in the initial setup of Secure Flight,” said Joe Brancatelli, the publisher of the subscription business-travel Web site Joesentme.com.
But, he added, “travelers really need to get this all organized before the feds start enforcing it.”Right now, travelers experience Secure Flight through dealings with airlines. Starting in late summer, airlines began asking customers to make reservations under the exact name that appears on the ID to be used at airport security. That is, a John Thomas Smith who makes a reservation should be using an ID with that name
Airlines have also been asking that customers ensure that all personal information, including frequent-flier accounts, appear under the same full name.Once the airlines are finished with the initial phase, the T.S.A. plans to begin more closely matching names on boarding passes with IDs at the checkpoints. This prospect is where confusion lies. Will passengers whose IDs have slight variations from their boarding passes be delayed at checkpoints for an extra measure of scrutiny?On its Web site, the T.S.A. is less than crystal clear on this point. “For the near future, small differences between the passenger’s ID and the passenger’s reservation information, such as the use of a middle initial instead of a full middle name, or no middle initial at all, should not cause a problem for the passenger,” it says.
Now if that statement were written in the form of a contract, a good lawyer would flag language like “for the near future” and “should not cause.” But the T.S.A. says not to worry.“We do understand there are slight variations in the way airlines book their reservations and print their boarding passes,” said the T.S.A.’s director of Secure Flight, Paul Leyh. A “slight variation” between a name on an ID and a boarding pass “should not delay the passenger’s travel,” he said.Secure Flight was intended to solve a relatively small but widely publicized problem
the extra security screening and resulting delays that some people routinely encounter because their names match or approximate the identities of people on a secret security watch list maintained by the government. That so-called selectee list contains the identities of people deemed to be subject to extra security before flying.Given more precise information at booking, the T.S.A. expects to be able to match more precisely a passenger’s identity against those on the watch list. This should reduce the number of
people who are flagged at security until it can be determined that they are not the person with a similar name who is on a watch list.“The Secure Flight watch-list matching process occurs before a passenger even gets to the airport,” Mr. Leyh said. “So if you get a boarding pass, the Secure Flight watch-list matching process is done.” In other words, you are clear once you get that pass.
But is that person showing up at the checkpoint with your boarding pass in hand actually you? To prove it, IDs and boarding pass names are supposed to match. But boarding passes have limited spaces for letters and sometimes truncate or otherwise mangle names.The T.S.A. says that in those cases, it is up to the discretion of the screener to scrutinize the ID, including the photo, and decide whether the person holding the boarding pass is the same as the person it was issued to.Boarding passes sometimes truncate my proper first name, Joseph, as “Jose,” and my own mother would not recognize that sorry mug on my passport photo. Still, there “should” be no problem. Let’s just say I remain skeptical, but hopeful.For the near future.
A version of this article appears in print on November 10, 2009, on page B8 of the National edition with the headline: The Rules on Names Could Bend a Little.
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.
Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice
Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers
Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures
In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
