Homeland Security Nominee Vows to Safeguard Country, but Offers Few Specifics - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|Homeland Security Nominee Vows to Safeguard Country, but Offers Few Specifics
Homeland Security Nominee Vows to Safeguard Country, but Offers Few Specifics
President-elect Barack Obama’s nominee to head the Homeland Security Department breezed through a confirmation hearing on Thursday that one senator called a “warm and fuzzy” experience.The nominee, Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, offered few specifics at the two-and-one-half-hour hearing, while promising to safeguard the country from terrorists, protect its borders and strengthen the six-year-old department.Ms. Napolitano told the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs that the department had moved
to shape itself into a cohesive agency created from more than 22 parts. But, she said, “our work is not finished.”“To secure the homeland,” she said,
“means to protect our nation’s borders by finding and killing roots of terrorism and stop those who intend to hurt us, to wisely enforce the rule of law at our borders, to protect our national cyber infrastructure, and to prepare for and respond to natural and man-caused disasters with speed, skill and effectiveness.”
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut independent who heads the committee, praised Ms. Napolitano as a “superb choice.” Although the agency’s performance had improved, Mr. Lieberman said, “there were still those who believed D.H.S. should be chopped up and its parts shipped off to other agencies.”
“I believe that is exactly the wrong way to go,” he added.Ms. Napolitano seemed to agree, saying she would “take the organization that is here and make it better as opposed to moving around a lot of boxes on an organization chart.”Her genial bipartisan welcome began with her introduction, as a Democrat, by Arizona’s two Republican senators, Jon Kyl and John McCain. Mr. McCain said Ms. Napolitano would bring her “no nonsense” approach as governor to the Obama cabinet.But it was Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, who seemed to capture the hearing’s mood
when she told Ms. Napolitano, “It’s all going to be warm and fuzzy today,” although she warned that after Ms. Napolitano’s widely expected confirmation there would be few such moments.“That’s going to be about it,” Ms. McCaskill said.Ms. Napolitano, responding to several border
and immigration questions, suggested that she was well equipped to handle complex and hotly debated issues through long experience as a governor and a former United States attorney in a border state. DAVID JOHNSTON
A version of this article appears in print on , on page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: Janet Napolitano.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
