T.S.A. Grants Airline Pilots an Exception to Screenings - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|T.S.A. Grants Airline Pilots an Exception to Screenings
T.S.A. Grants Airline Pilots an Exception to Screenings
WASHINGTON — At least one group of air travelers will get a break from the body scans and pat-downs that have provoked a national outcry.On Friday, the Transportation Security Administration announced that it would let uniformed airline pilots skip the screenings, reversing an earlier policy that everyone had to go through the screenings as part of the agency’s efforts to prevent terrorist attacks. Pilots who are traveling out of uniform or not on official business will still be subject to searches, the agency said.The full-body scans and pat-downs being performed at a number of airports have angered travelers, many of whom said the searches were invasive and likened them to virtual strip searches. Passengers have also raised concerns about the long-term effect of radiation exposure from airport scanners.The agency said pilots would still have to pass through a metal detector at airport checkpoints and present two photo identifications that would be verified against a flight crew database.The government ruling comes after an extensive two-year lobbying campaign by unions and organizations representing airline pilots. The groups made the argument that because their members had already been through extensive background checks by federal law enforcement officials, there was no need for the added security searches.
Those lobbying for changes in pilot screenings include Captain Chesley B. Sullenberger, who gained national fame last year after safely landing a plane in the Hudson River with over 100 passengers on board.“Allowing these uniformed pilots, whose identity has been verified, to go through expedited screening at the checkpoint just makes for smart security and an efficient use of our resources,” John S. Pistole, the agency’s administrator, said in a statement.Dwayne Baird, a spokesman for the T.S.A., said on Saturday that the ruling would apply only to pilots, and not flight attendants.“They will still have to go through the same screening as everyone else,” Mr. Baird said.Flight attendants and their unions have argued that they should also be allowed to bypass the pat-downs and screenings, as well.“Flight attendants are subject to extensive background checks, so there is no reasonable explanation why this highly vetted group of aviation employees continues to be exposed to lengthy airport security lines which may affect their ability to report to the aircraft on time,” Patricia A. Friend, president of the Association of Flight Attendants, said in a statement this month.Mr. Baird said he did not have any information on why flight attendants were not included in the new T.S.A. policy, even though they undergo the same background checks as pilots. He said he had no information about forthcoming changes for ordinary passengers.Questioned on the protocol while at a NATO summit meeting in Portugal, President Obama acknowledged travelers’ frustrations. “What I’ve said to the T.S.A. is that you have to constantly refine and measure whether what we’re doing is the only way to assure the American people’s safety,” he said. “And you also have to think through, ‘Are there other ways of doing it that are less intrusive?’ ”
A version of this article appears in print on November 21, 2010, on page A25 of the New York edition with the headline: T.S.A. Grants Airline Pilots An Exception To Screenings.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
