John Pistole, T.S.A. Chief, Defends Airport Practices - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Politics|T.S.A. Chief Visits Airport to Buck Up Employees and Defend Tactics
T.S.A. Chief Visits Airport to Buck Up Employees and Defend Tactics
On a visit to Ronald Reagan National Airport on Tuesday, John Pistole, the T.S.A. administrator, went through a body scanner.
WASHINGTON — As John Pistole strode through Concourse B of Ronald Reagan National Airport on one of the busiest travel days of the year, flanked by airport employees, a news media handler and a reporter, a bewildered traveler looked up and wondered aloud: Is a celebrity flying through?Well, sort of.Mr. Pistole, the administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, has become the unwitting face of everything Americans hate about airport security in a post-9/11 world, the most recent outcry being the agency’s new pat-down procedure, which many passengers say feels invasive and inappropriate.He has been maligned on Twitter — “I won’t fly in the U.S. again until John Pistole and TSA are eliminated,” reads one message — and Democrats and Republicans alike have criticized his agency’s new security measures.But Mr. Pistole, 54, said that while he had been surprised by the “fullness of the public reaction,” he was happy to take the heat if it meant keeping travelers safe.“My hope is that, whatever people want to call me, they recognize that we’re simply doing everything we can to work with people to provide the best possible security,” Mr. Pistole said. “I have to try to assess what are the risks being posed and what steps we can take to provide the best possible security, while recognizing the privacy issue.”
On the Tuesday before Thanksgiving, he was greeted in the airport by T.S.A. employees, whom he fist-bumped and thanked for their hard work, and who beamed and thanked him back. “Thank you for standing behind us,” said the woman checking IDs. Later, two young T.S.A. officers approached him to say, “Thanks for everything you’re doing for us, dealing with all this media stuff.”In person, Mr. Pistole — 6-foot-3 with pale blue eyes and a slow, Indiana timbre — can seem folksy and warm; he is
the son of a Church of God minister, and members of his staff mention his dry sense of humor. Continue reading the main story
Though he has experience and seems comfortable testifying before Congress, as he did last week, his background is in national security and counterterrorism. He joined the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1983 and rose through the ranks, serving in Minneapolis and New York before supervising the organized crime section out of the bureau’s Washington headquarters. In 1999, he helped lead the inquiry
into the EgyptAir Flight 990 crash off Nantucket, Mass., and in 2004 became the No. 2 F.B.I official. He was President Obama’s third-choice pick to head the T.S.A., a post Mr. Pistole assumed in July, filling an 18-month vacancy.“He’s somebody who has always impressed me, as well as others, for being exceptionally unflappable, a straight talker, a clear talker and someone who will focus on the objectives and what needs to get done,” said John O. Brennan, Mr. Obama’s top counterterrorism adviser. “His understanding of the nature of the threat that we face, the evolving nature of it and the creativity these terrorist groups bring to the effort, allows him to understand what we need to do to guard against it.”Government investigations had already exposed vulnerabilities in the air travel security system, and Mr. Pistole said that after last year’s unsuccessful Christmas Day bombing attempt, when a would-be terrorist boarded a plane with a bomb sewn into his underwear, “it was an easy decision” to establish more rigorous pat-down procedures. More aggressive pat-downs were already in place in two airports, and the failed Yemen cargo plot last month further illustrated their importance, but when they were recently carried out nationwide, a public uproar ensued.Mr. Pistole acknowledged that his agency failed to get out ahead of the story — a conscious security choice on his end, he said — and he has spent the past week playing catch-up, bouncing from the Sunday news shows to quick nightly news and cable hits to conference calls with reporters.“We didn’t come out with a tutorial or a demonstration,” he said. “That’s one way to educate the public, but it’s also one way to educate the terrorists.”Touring Reagan
Airport on the crest of the holiday crush, Mr. Pistole marveled at the short lines, and passed through a modified version of the security screening, which he said was standard procedure when visiting the departure gates.
“Are you going through the famous AIT machine?” asked Ebony James, a security officer, referring to the full-body scanners. “Step on down and stand on the yellow footprints.”Mr. Pistole received a modified pat-down, but said he had experienced the real thing, both before he approved the procedure and as a traveler. “It is effective,” he said. “It is thorough in the way it’s designed to be, to detect those types of devices that can bring down an airplane.”So is it something he would want his wife to undergo?“You say, do I want?” asked Mr. Pistole, who has no Thanksgiving travel plans other than to maybe visit another airport. “In an ideal world, nobody would need to undergo a pat-down because our technology would be so precise and our intelligence about how we are identifying travelers so informed that nobody would need a pat-down. But that’s not the world we live in.”Standing before Gate 17, as a plane boarded, Mr. Pistole scanned the crowd and described what he and fellow T.S.A. employees look for.“Where the groups of people are, are there any people who appear out of normal in any type of way, are there any anomalies from that perspective?” he said. “And then, do we have some security officers down here who are doing gate checking?”He pointed to a pair of agents, who were doing additional “random and unpredictable” screening at the gate, and said they also had a behavior detection officer looking for people who might be acting suspiciously — going out of their way to avoid a bomb-sniffing dog, for instance.Back outside the screening area, a news anchor was doing a breathless live stand-up: “... the controversy of tough new screening procedures ...” she intoned.“We’re not doing that one, are we?” Mr. Pistole asked, laughing and shaking his head as he passed by.No, his press person, Kristin Lee, affirmed. She pulled him aside for a quick briefing on two breaking items — a suspicious package had forced the evacuation of the cargo area at Logan International Airport in Boston, and a loaded gun magazine had been found on a Southwest flight — and Mr. Pistole nodded calmly, before continuing to the other end of the terminal, where a half-dozen camera crews were waiting for him.
A version of this article appears in print on November 25, 2010, on page A24 of the New York edition with the headline: T.S.A. Chief Visits Airport to Buck Up Employees and Defend Tactics.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
