For Security Ideas, Ask the Business Traveler - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|For Security Ideas, Ask Business Travelers
WHEN there is trouble, it sometimes makes sense to listen to the experts.By that I mean hard-core business travelers. I’ve been hearing from a lot of them since that nasty business
Detroit-bound flight from Amsterdam on Christmas Day. Most said the same thing: it’s a mistake to overreact to one incident by ratcheting up security to the point where normal travel is further discouraged. Get some perspective, they said.The one who said it best was Douglas J. Engmann, the president of Engmann Options, a financial services firm in San Francisco, who says he flies about 200,000 miles a year. He contends
security screening ordered by the Transportation Security Administration will do little or nothing to shield the air travel system from
the road.“I was frustrated to read about what I saw as a knee-jerk reaction,” he said.The T.S.A. ordered more thorough screenings of passengers and their belongings, including more physical pat-downs. On international flights to the United States, passengers can expect to be screened
gate.The T.S.A. initially reacted by banning passengers on international flights into the United States from getting out of their seats or having any access to personal belongings
for an hour before arrival time. But on Monday, the agency eased those restrictions, leaving such measures to the discretion of a flight’s captain.Frequent fliers say they understand that a fast, hard tightening of security may be justifiable while the authorities determine whether there is a wider plot. “Right away, you lower the boom,” Mr. Engmann said.
But adding more disruption to the security process would be a mistake, he said. “It’s not that we don’t adjust. Business travelers are accustomed to knowing the rules and making do with them,” he said. “Yet right now, you have to wonder about the balance between totally inconveniencing the traveling public versus what is the threat.”Kevin Mitchell, the chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, said that “security lines lengthened literally overnight” at airports after the stricter measures were put into place. He said that “extra screening will be a hassle, especially for time-sensitive business travelers.”
He also said it was unconscionable that the T.S.A. had not had a permanent director for almost a year. President Obama’s nominee to the post, Erroll G. Southers, has been blocked from confirmation by Senator Jim DeMint, a South Carolina Republican. Mr. DeMint has asked Mr. Southers, a former F.B.I. agent, to clarify his position on whether T.S.A. workers have a right to be unionized. Mr. Southers is currently the assistant chief for homeland security and intelligence at Los Angeles International Airport and a well-known academic authority on terrorism risk analysis.On his Web site,
aviationplanning.com, the airline consultant Michael Boyd summed up the situation
this way: “A clown who was known to be a suspected terrorist is allowed to board a Delta flight at Amsterdam,” and is subdued by passengers and crew when he tries to set off an explosive strapped to his leg. How, Mr. Boyd asked, does ordering an “increase in the pointy-object patrol” rummaging through carry-on bags for screwdrivers, address such an issue?Obviously, the debate about effective security and antiterrorism intelligence
for some time. So let’s step back and look for some advice from experts like Mr. Engmann.Once the T.S.A. does get a permanent director and a firmer footing, how about asking business travelers to join serious discussions on “how things are really working, and what can be done?” he suggested.“I go through, what, 150 T.S.A. checkpoints a year? People like us, we notice things,” he said. “If you think about it, we’re also the ones who are most at risk, because we’re flying the most. So we’re not ones who want to make it easy for a terrorist to get on an airplane. On the other hand, we’re the ones who have the most experience at going through the checkpoints and observing.”Air travel security is a three-legged stool. One leg is
the effectiveness of the T.S.A; another is the fortified airplane cockpit doors that make it unlikely that terrorists will ever again commandeer a plane as a guided missile;
and the third is vigilant passengers who will fight back, as they did on Friday.
“We’re the first responders, basically,” Mr. Engmann said.
“Passengers stopped and flight attendants stopped this guy from doing more damage.”“In my view, the message going back to Al Qaeda, or whoever, is:
‘Look, you can try this. But passengers are not going to let you get away with it. And you may want to try to make flying like being in prison for us, but we’re just not going to allow you to do that to us either.’ ”
A version of this article appears in print on December 29, 2009, on page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: For Security Ideas, Ask Business Travelers.
U.S. Struggles Anew to Ensure Safety as Gaps Are Revealed
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.
Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice
Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers
Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures
In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty
U.S. Struggles Anew to Ensure Safety as Gaps Are Revealed
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
