Boston's Airport Security Is Described as Standard - NYTimes.com
campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Bar1
A DAY OF TERROR: SECURITY; Boston's Airport Security Is Described as Standard
Just what went wrong at Logan International Airport? Hundreds of investigators in what one official called ''a massive investigation'' began trying today to pinpoint how terrorists managed to penetrate the two airliners that set off from here to destroy the World Trade Center towers, even as airport officials maintained that Logan was as safe as any of its counterparts.
Two of the four jetliners that were hijacked by terrorists this morning
originated at Logan. The first, American Airlines Flight 11, with 92 people aboard, left Boston at 7:59 bound for Los Angeles and crashed into the World Trade Center at about 8:45. The second, United Airlines Flight 175, also headed for Los Angeles and carrying 63, left Boston at 8:14 and struck the World Trade Center shortly after 9.
''We have a very high security standard here,'' said Joseph Lawless, director of public safety for the Massachusetts Port Authority, ''and consider ourselves as secure if not more secure than any other airport in the United States.''
In fact, Logan's record is far from blemish-free. In one of its more publicized security breaches, a 17-year-old boy dressed as a Hasid climbed over a fence, walked about two miles to a runway and sneaked aboard a Boeing 747 bound for London in 1999. He was detected only after he reached Heathrow.
A 1999 investigation by The Boston Globe into Federal Aviation Administration records also turned up scores of security lapses at Logan --
136 in all -- in the preceding two years, from loose control of planes left parked overnight to lax vigilance by screeners at checkpoints.
But several aviation security experts said today that Mr. Lawless was right: if anything, Logan's level of security is typical of large international airports -- and that, not some specific Boston flaw, is the cause for concern, they said.
''Nothing's wrong with Logan,'' said Douglas R. Laird, a former security director at Northwest Airlines who is now a principal with BGI International, a consulting firm specializing in counterterrorism and aviation security. ''What you find at Logan is what you would find at J.F.K. or La Guardia or O'Hare. They're not going to vary very much. Logan follows the same procedures as any other airport.''
One typical aspect of Logan's security, experts said, is that the staffing of its security checkpoints is left up to the airlines rather than the airport. ''Logan is not a sloppy airport,'' said Arnold Barnett, a professor of operations research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an expert on aviation security. ''But individual airlines arrange their own security.''
And that security, said David S. Stempler, president of the Air Travelers Association, is usually contracted out by the airlines ''to the lowest bidder, and the lowest bidder gets the lowest bid because they hire minimum-wage people, and these are the people who are responsible for our security.''
claimed any special knowledge about how the terrorists are likely to have operated. But some offered various possibilities: The terrorists could have smuggled weapons aboard through security checkpoints. They could have acted with almost no weapons. Or they could have been in league with some of the hundreds of service personnel, from members of catering staffs to mechanics, who have free range in restricted areas -- in a conspiracy based either on bribery or on political sympathy.
Mr. Lawless said he believed the two airliners had sat in the airport overnight before taking off just a few minutes apart from each other this morning.
He said investigators would be pulling in potential witnesses to try to determine what happened. Boston authorities also said today they were trying to ferret out whether the terrorist group had plotted its attack while in Boston, and noted that Boston had already been a chosen center of operations for two men linked to the terrorist Osama bin Laden.
Logan is the 17th busiest airport in the United States, and the sixth most prone to delay. It has recently been undergoing a $1 billion modernization project that for months has filled it with construction equipment and confusion. Today, much of that construction was halted, as authorities shut down the airport, evacuated stranded passengers and set up a center for bereaved families.
There has also been recent construction at Newark International Airport, the point of origin for the plane that crashed in Pennsylvania. A pilot who spoke on condition he not be identified said today that he had complained in July that a construction crew had easy access to planes at the gates.
In general, however, many American airports -- Logan among them -- have been beefing up their security measures. Last year, for example, Logan permanently locked 26 doors that lead from terminal buildings to the tarmac and whose security could easily be breached.
And now, said Thomas Kinton, the director of aviation for the Massachusetts Port Authority, those security measures are likely to be increased manyfold, from the deployment of more teams of explosive-sniffing dogs to an increase in random identification checks.
In the meanwhile, he said, the investigation is ''going down every avenue to determine what went wrong at the three airports involved this morning, and what kind of weapons -- if any -- were used to bring these aircraft down.'' Questioning was already well under way, he said, and among those questioned will be personnel from security checkpoints, catering services and many others who could have come in contact with the airliners used to attack Manhattan.
''It's a massive investigation, and we're cooperating fully with all of the federal authorities,'' he said.
Other officials have said that the two airplanes gave no sign that anything was wrong as they departed Boston. Mr. Kinton said that he gathered from conversations with air traffic overseers that American Flight 11 was off course for about 30 minutes before it crashed -- but that it was already well out of Boston's air space when it went off course.
''We're in the process of trying to uncover what went wrong and make any changes necessary to prevent it from occurring again,'' he said.
Photo: A state trooper watched yesterday as passengers at the American Airlines terminal at Logan International Airport were evacuated. (Reuters)
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Inv1
