A Pension Plan for the Creative Class - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Alicia Paz, a painter based in London, belongs to the Artist Pension Trust. “I’m aware the ultimate goal is financial security for the future, but it’s not the reason why I joined,” she said.
For many artists, building castles in the sky would be a fair way to describe retirement planning.Ten years ago, the New York-based program Artist Pension Trust contacted artists with this unusual idea: Give us some of your artworks as assets and rather than sell them as soon as possible, as a gallery would, we will hold them for future sale, probably at least for 10 years. In this way, artists could invest in their future security and benefit from a potential increase in the value of their work.But the trust concept is about more than simply deferring sales for future security, which, for many artists, is a secondary concern to the need for immediate income. The trust, unlike galleries, allows for risk diversification. It groups 250 artists in separate regional pools. When the work of one artist is sold, a percentage goes to the pool so that those whose work has not sold or sells for relatively little will benefit from the sales of fellow artists.“The diversification is like a built-in insurance mechanism for the artists,” said Moti Shniberg, the co-founder and chairman of the trust, which is a for-profit enterprise. “But like any successful fund around the world, it’s a question of strategy and sound judgment. In this case, about what artists to include and when to sell.”A high-tech entrepreneur, Mr. Shniberg came up with the idea for the trust more than a decade ago when he witnessed the financial struggles of an artist friend. To develop the financial formula, he worked with Dan Galai, an economist and authority in risk diversification theory.Since its founding, the trust has evolved significantly. This month it will make its first distributions, rather than wait to make a large payout at the end of a 25-year period as originally planned, along the lines of a pension fund.
“This was built as a pension, but we decided to pay as we go along so people can see the model works,” said Al Brenner, a board member. “Also, it’s been 10 years, and in some cases it was right to sell. But we’re extremely cautious and don’t want to sell too soon.”The trust has sold only a minor fraction of its holdings of more than 14,000 artworks by 2,000 artists from 81 countries, making it one of the world’s largest private art collections. To build the collection, each artist is asked to invest 20 artworks over a 10-year period.Since it began, it has added 100 to 120 artists every year, and it plans to continue growing, if at a slower pace. Selection is determined by committees from Asia, Europe and the Americas. Each committee nominates new candidates in its region every three months. Non-nominated artists can also apply online.Last year, the trust received 833 applications and admitted 12 percent.Its artists are divided into eight regional trusts, each capped at 250 members. A ninth trust, the Global Trust, which opened in 2013, has a limit of 628 artists. Most are full, or nearly so.To make room for growth, there are plans to open a second Global Trust, which will admit artists from all locations.Once a work is sold, 40 percent of the proceeds goes to the artist who created the work, and 32 percent is set aside for the other artists in the same trust. The remaining 28 percent goes to expenses and dividends for approximately 50 private investors.This month’s distributions, set for the New York and Los Angeles artist pools, the first to fill up, will be “under $1,000 per artist,” said Mr. Brenner, but the amount is expected to increase in the future as more art is sold. Also, an artist’s share grows with the number of works invested, a plan meant to encourage artists to invest the full 20 works.To raise enough money to provide for its members, the trust is banking on the outsize success of 3 percent to 5 percent of its artists, whose works will reach a value of at least $500,000. Among its artists are numerous highly collectible names, including Douglas Gordon, Y. Z. Kami and Iván Navarro.
Mr. Shniberg contends that even those artists who command the highest prices have an incentive to participate in the fund.“This way they have financial security if they fall out of favor,” he said. “Today you can be in the most important art magazine, but in three years, it could be different,” he said. “But for those who are lucky and do remain successful, their thinking is that in the ‘worst’ case — actually the best case — they will be supporting their fellow artists.”Along with changing its distribution plan, the trust no longer defines itself as a financial product but as a kind of artist cooperative, providing services as varied as free storage and transport, or a loans-and-exhibitions program that promotes the work of artists internationally.Indeed, some artists have joined more for the community support than the financial advantages.“I’m aware the ultimate goal is financial security for the future, but it’s not the reason why I joined,” said Alicia Paz, a Mexican artist who lives in London. “I’m more interested in the networking and the support structure for the now.”Huma Mulji, a Pakistani artist and trust member who lives in Bristol, England, said, “I am skeptical of any kind of financial services that claim to make your money grow.” He added, “But there was transparency in our conversations, and I was at a point in my career where I benefited more than A.P.T. I was making large-scale objects, which did not always have a queue of buyers.”The gallery owners who represent the artists say the loss of some of their artists’ work to the program is not an enormous sacrifice because it occurs gradually. But some do wonder if the financial benefits for the artists will turn out well.“It’s so early in the process that it’s difficult to say how it will work as a full-fledged retirement plan,” said Candice Madey, owner of On Stellar Rays, a gallery in the Lower East Side of Manhattan. “But the model is very interesting, and I am very curious to see where it is in 20 years.”
A version of this article appears in print on March 6, 2016, on page F8 of the New York edition with the headline: The Art of Retirement Security.
3-Generation Family Trips Gain New Appeal but Can Bare Old Tensions
On Eve of Retirement, Savings for Medical Costs Can Fall Short
Stories to help you understand the world – and make the most of it.
Cruise and Rail News: Shackleton Tour; Pets on Amtrak
3-Generation Family Trips Gain New Appeal but Can Bare Old Tensions
On Eve of Retirement, Savings for Medical Costs Can Fall Short
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
