Agency Expands ‘Behavior Detection’ to Spot Airport Threats - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|That Chat at the Airport Is Anything but Idle
THE older I get, the longer the list of people I don’t want to talk to.So let’s just say that I made note of recent comments by John S. Pistole, the head of the Transportation Security Administration, that his agency planned to “upgrade” an existing program in which security officers engage selected passengers in conversation near airport checkpoints.Mr. Pistole said that expanding the so-called behavior detection program now in place at 161 airports would allow officers to “have more interaction” with more passengers. The idea, loosely based on well-known Israeli aviation security procedures, is that trained agents try to detect behavioral signs indicating potential threats.Now, most of my interactions at checkpoints have been pleasant. But I’d just as soon get through security as quickly as possible. The only verbal interaction I welcome is the one that occurs after takeoff, when a flight attendant comes by to ask, “Would you like a beverage, sir?”I’m open to alternatives, though. And as it turns out, the security agency is, too.Expanding the behavior program is one aspect of the T.S.A.’s initiative to focus more on what it calls risk-based intelligence — to provide smarter overall security while decreasing the grim drudgery of the search for mere things at the checkpoint among the undifferentiated mass of passengers.As part of that thinking, the agency is also starting tests at four airports this fall of a new so-called trusted traveler program that would, if adopted, offer expedited screening for qualified passengers who agree to provide personal information for a background check before flying. At the same time, the agency is giving a tentative nod to the rebirth of an old security program that ran aground without firm T.S.A. support in 2009 — Clear.
Yes, Clear is back, though only at two airports right now. You remember Clear, the private program based primarily on issuing biometrically encoded identity cards and giving its members special security lanes at airports. Clear’s spiffy blue and white kiosks had expanded into more than 20 airports before it shut down abruptly in 2009, abandoning about 150,000 members who had paid up to $199 for their annual ID cards.
Under new management, Clear tiptoed back into operation last November. It is now operated by Alclear, a privately held company that bought Clear’s assets from its previous owner, Verified Identity Pass, at bankruptcy auction.The old Clear foundered for various reasons, including heavy debt. But officials at the T.S.A. also told me privately on numerous occasions that they were reluctant to incorporate Clear in the security system as a real partner for various reasons. So the old Clear, despite those biometric-scanning kiosks, operated just as a fast-track lane. Once they passed through the Clear kiosk, members merely proceeded to the regular T.S.A. checkpoint, where they had to show a government-issued photo identification and were treated exactly like everyone else.The new Clear, which costs $179 a year, is now operating only at airports in Denver and Orlando, Fla., but the company plans significant expansion on a bet that the T.S.A. will accept it as a partner in the agency’s efforts to focus more on risk-based security intelligence.It undoubtedly helps that the management of the new Clear includes executives with government security experience. The president, J. Bennet Waters, for example, is a former deputy assistant administrator at the T.S.A. and, more recently, was the chief operating officer at the Chertoff Group, the security consulting firm founded by Michael Chertoff. Mr. Chertoff, the former homeland security secretary, is on the board of the new Clear.It isn’t yet apparent exactly how the new Clear and its various likely competitors will fit into Mr. Pistole’s plans. Nor is it clear how trusted traveler proposals can address concerns about the obvious faults in the system — most recently exemplified by the Army private, Naser Abdo, charged with plotting a terrorist attack on Fort Hood in Texas. As a soldier, Private Abdo, of course, probably would have qualified as a trusted traveler.There is no such thing as 100 percent security, of course. Mr. Waters said that ironclad identity verification, coupled with background checks by private companies, would be one important layer in a multilayered system.“We want to be a partner providing an enabling technology that leverages the power of biometrics and commercial data and technology to enable John Pistole’s vision for risk-based screening,” he said, “with high confidence that we have determined who is low risk and who may be higher risk.”
A version of this article appears in print on August 2, 2011, on page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: That Chat at the Airport Is Anything but Idle.
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.
Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice
Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers
Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures
In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
