Alexander Litvinenko and the Banality of Evil in Putin’s Russia - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Magazine|Alexander Litvinenko and the Banality of Evil in Putin’s Russia
Alexander Litvinenko and the Banality of Evil in Putin’s Russia
Marina Litvinenko speaking to reporters on Jan. 21 in London after receiving the results of the inquiry into the death of her husband, Alexander Litvinenko.
Today, a retired British High Court judge named Robert Owen published a 328-page report on the 2006 death in London of Alexander Litvinenko, a former agent of Russia’s Federal Security Service, the F.S.B. Nine years after Litvinenko went bald and wasted away in a London hospital bed, from poisoning with a rare radioactive isotope, Owen’s report found that there was “strong circumstantial evidence of Russian state responsibility” and that the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, and the head of the F.S.B. likely sanctioned the murder.It’s a salacious tale of revenge and espionage, straight out of a John le Carre novel: an F.S.B. man turned whistleblower meets in a posh London hotel with his former colleagues, who slip polonium 210 into his green tea. Investigators find a clump of debris laced with the radioactive stuff in a sink drainpipe a few floors above, near where one of the F.S.B. men was staying. The other suspected assassin gave Litvinenko’s wealthy benefactor, the banished oligarch Boris Berezovsky, a T-shirt that said, “nuclear death is knocking your door [sic].”And yet, in Russia the report merited little more than a yawn. Immediately, the familiar reactions kicked in. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, said the report wasn’t of any interest to the Kremlin and, in a pointed turn of phrase, expressed regret that the report “only poisoned” relations between Russia and Britain. Maria Zakharova, spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, called the findings “politicized,” and a report on the main evening-news program on Russia’s Channel One hinted that the British killed two key witnesses in the case. The British, in turn, said they would freeze the assets of Andrei Lugovoi and Dmitry Kovtun, the two former F.S.B. agents accused of poisoning Litvinenko. Theresa May, the British home secretary, said that the Russian ambassador to London was summoned for a talking-to.All of this changes exactly nothing. Relations between Russia and Britain could hardly have been worse before the report was released, and Lugovoi and Kovtun haven’t been to London in ages — not since the British police fingered them in Litvinenko’s murder and sought their extradition, which Russia has flatly refused. Lugovoi now has immunity as a member of the Russian Parliament, as well as a medal from Putin for “service to the nation.” The murder itself took place nine years ago, and since then, the sordid details have become endlessly familiar. Even the le Carre comparison has become a nauseatingly common cliché, bandied about endlessly since Litvinenko’s death.It may be crass to be bored by the details of a man’s murder, but here we are. The West and Putin’s opponents at home believe that the Kremlin killed Litvinenko — that his death was a Cosa Nostra-style murder of a traitor. Putin loyalists and the masses who will see the news on Russian television believe this is all a Western ploy to tarnish Russia’s image. Nothing that came out in Judge Owen’s report will sway them; in fact, it only hardens the two positions. The same happened this summer with the release of another supposedly scandalous report on Russia’s nefarious deeds: The Dutch marshaled reams of evidence in the shooting down of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 over eastern Ukraine, carefully laying it out in a report that pointed to Moscow’s role in the tragedy. The Russians pooh-poohed it and showed their own report on television, one that directly contradicted the Dutch investigation. Only 3 percent of Russians believe the Dutch narrative of the crash.
In today’s climate of mutual fear and loathing, no new event or report is ever actually new. Each only confirms one side’s narrative about the other, deepening the gloom and suspicion, making a return to the days of détente seem that much more impossible. Here, perhaps more than elsewhere, we see the elements of Cold War revanchism: the tired tropes on repeat, deepening the mental ruts on both sides of the deepening trenches.Even Litvinenko’s extraordinary death has come, in retrospect, to seem less than extraordinary. So many other Putin opponents have met grisly ends or come frighteningly close. The month before Litvinenko died in a London hospital bed, Anna Politkovskaya, a Russian journalist, was shot to death in her apartment building. The human rights activist Natalia Estemirova was found dead in a car trunk in July 2009. A few months later, Sergei Magnitsky, a lawyer investigating government corruption, died in prison in Moscow after reporting having been tortured. A year later, in November 2010, amid the thaw of Dmitry Medvedev’s tenure, Oleg Kashin, a journalist, was beaten within an inch of his life, an attack that is widely suspected to have been ordered by the son of one of Putin’s friends. Last February, the opposition leader Boris Nemtsov was gunned down within view of the Kremlin. The case has yet to come to a conclusion, and his daughter has also fled Russia. In recent days, the Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov — widely assumed to be behind the killings of Nemtsov, Politkovskaya and Estemirova — has openly threatened opposition figures. After Amnesty International issued a call for Russian officials to condemn these threats, Russian officials responded by posing for photos with placards saying, “Kadyrov is a Russian patriot.”
At a certain point, the violence becomes background noise. Revenge, even when it is served with rare, radioactive isotopes, is just another detail in a picture that darkened ages ago.
Julia Ioffe is a contributing writer for the magazine.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
