Another Trusted Traveler Program to Be Tested - On the Road - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|Trying to Revive Trusted Traveler Program
LIKE most business travelers, I’d welcome the opportunity to provide the government with some basic information to indicate that I am not inclined to acts of terrorism, and in turn to receive a special pass that lets me get through airport security with my shoes on and my personal dignity relatively intact.Yet it’s demonstrably easier said than done to come up with a so-called trusted traveler program, which would give expedited security treatment to travelers who essentially obtain a checkmark of approval in advance of their flight from the Transportation Security Administration. And there are critics who claim it shouldn’t be done anyway.For over a decade, such initiatives have foundered, whether proposed by the government or initiated by private enterprises.For example, there was Verified Identify Pass, which spent millions to install its Clear checkpoints in two dozen airports, and then went out of business in 2009 when it became apparent that the ID cards, encoded with each member’s biometric data, offered little more than a head-of-line pass through security. Clear is now under new ownership that is trying to rejuvenate the program.Meanwhile, John S. Pistole, the head of the T.S.A., is taking another run at a federally managed trusted traveler program. Last week, he said the agency would start a test program this fall of a “risk-based, intelligence-driven” security system that would provide preapproved passengers with boarding passes encoded with personal identification information, allowing them to use special checkpoint lanes in which procedures would be “expedited.”
The agency has not described exactly what “expedited” security would entail, but in the past trusted-traveler proposals have been predicated on the presumption that approved passengers would receive quicker, less intrusive screening, including benefits like not having to remove their shoes, if reliable technology were developed. All of the proposals, including the current one, would still subject approved passengers to basic security checks.
Like his predecessor, Kip Hawley, Mr. Pistole has spoken often about his determination to have the agency focus more on smart security intelligence, and less on obsessively searching for prohibited “things” while inspecting passengers and their possessions at checkpoints.Again, that’s easier said than done — in part because Congress and the news media routinely let out mighty wails denouncing the T.S.A. after any publicized breach of basic checkpoint scrutiny, even if it is inadvertent.“If some poor schlep brings something through by mistake, that’s exactly the wrong thing we should be worried about,” said Joshua Schank, the president of the Eno Transportation Foundation, which focuses on transportation policy. At checkpoints, “there is no human being on earth meant to stare at an X-ray machine or watch people go through metal detectors all day, with the vigilance of being able to catch that one-in-a-bazillion person who might have something dangerous,” he said.Every security expert I know discounts the likelihood of anyone commandeering an airplane with a possession like a weapon, though there is deep concern about the dangers of nonmetallic explosives being used to blow a plane or planes up. Since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, cockpit doors have been secured against intruders, and crews and passengers alike beat the stuffing out of any passenger crazy enough to try to rush the cockpit.“Identity-based screening is another common-sense step in the right direction as we continue to strengthen overall security and improve the passenger experience whenever possible,” Mr. Pistole said.In the test phase of the new program, the agency said it would compile “prescreening assessments” on passengers who agreed to volunteer more information about themselves before flying. The volunteers will be selected mainly from among Delta Air Lines frequent-flier members who use the Atlanta and Detroit airports and American Airlines frequent fliers at the Miami and Dallas-Fort Worth airports.Of course, any trusted traveler program is predicated on a kind of elite notion that those who fly the most tend to be more trustworthy than everyone else. And that raises its own issues.“I have never been a big fan of it because the trusted traveler presumes that we have to treat anyone who isn’t a trusted traveler like a potential criminal,” Mr. Schank said.
A version of this article appears in print on July 19, 2011, on page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Trying to Revive Trusted Traveler Program.
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.
Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice
Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers
Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures
In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
