Apple and Justice Dept. Prepare to Face Off in Court - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Technology|Apple and Justice Dept. Prepare to Face Off in Court
Apple and Justice Dept. Prepare to Face Off in Court
When it comes to the behavior of the federal government, Apple may want to revive its old slogan, “Think Different.”On Tuesday, lawyers for both the California computer company and the Justice Department will face off in a courtroom in Riverside, Calif. The issue: Whether Apple must break the encryption in a phone belonging to the gunman in last year’s mass shooting near San Bernardino. The F.B.I. wants to read his communications.As Katie Benner and Matt Apuzzo discuss, Apple is telling the government that computer code, even code written to scramble digital conversations, is a kind of free speech. Telling people what to write amounts to telling them what to say.The F.B.I., for its part, wants Apple to realize that new technology does not make obsolete powerful laws — like the right to pursue a court-approved criminal investigation. Both sides expect the case will end up in the Supreme Court.Besides touching a product millions of Americans rely on daily, the case highlights the problems a capitalist superpower faces as it tries to sustain traditional authority in a world increasingly shaped by private sector technology.
According to ZDNet, the government has demanded critical software from numerous companies, which it wants to examine for flaws it can exploit in surveillance.Apple has its own issues. As The New York Times noted last week, if Apple loses this case, it risks also losing a lot of good engineers, who may leave the company rather than weaken their encryption technology.Think different, but also think long and hard in figuring all this out. Continue reading the main story
Insight and analysis on Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Flinging Emojis, Twitch Chatters Revel as Julia Child Cooks
Apple’s Engineers, if Defiant, Would be in Sync With Ethics Code
Apple Invokes ‘Rights of the American People’ in Its Fight
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
