Security at Paris Fashion Shows Less Strict Than Anticipated - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Fashion & Style|Security at Paris Fashion Shows Less Strict Than Anticipated
Security at Paris Fashion Shows Less Strict Than Anticipated
A police patrol at the Eiffel Tower on Thursday, during the Paris men’s wear shows.
PARIS — The City of Light was plunged into darkness on a mild night last November, when 130 people were killed in terrorist attacks across Paris. Two months later, France is still in a state of emergency, with security barriers and increased patrols of police officers and soldiers carrying automatic weapons a common sight, even though residents say the fear that hung over the city before Christmas is less palpable now.Nevertheless, a spokesman for Fédération Française de la Couture, the organization responsible for coordinating the twice-yearly couture shows, which began on Sunday night, informed attendees that it would take added safety precautions this season. Guests, who were told to bring identification to every show, girded themselves for long lines and searches.And then the IDs sat, unused, in their bags.At Versace on Sunday night, checkpoints were staffed solely by pretty public-relations girls; clutching a paper invitation seemed more than enough verification for them. The same applied at Schiaparelli on Monday morning as the street-style photographers went wild for Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, the former French first lady, or the actress Kate Bosworth, though a few unmarked police cars were parked nearby on the Rue de la Paix.“I can’t say I’ve seen tighter security measures than usual,’’ Stefano Tonchi, the editor of W magazine, said from the front row of Miu Miu’s mini-show on Monday. “In high-profile locations or government buildings they have been checking bags I suppose, but then that has always been the policy in those types of show locations.”Indeed, the few exceptions to the rule were the Hermès men’s wear show and, to a lesser extent, Dior’s couture show, both of which were held in public buildings.
Long lines formed outside the Hermès show, held at the Maison de la Radio on Saturday, and the show began about 40 minutes past the scheduled 8 p.m. start because attendees had to pass through metal detectors and be checked with hand-held wands as well as submit their invitations to very close inspection. (There were no requests for photo ID, however.)Similarly, at Dior, one of the biggest couture shows of the week, held Monday afternoon at the Musée Rodin, white security tents had been erected and a small army of immaculately clad staff members cast cursory glances through bags and ran metal detectors over guests at the entrance.Still, the Dior chief executive, Sidney Toledano, emphasized that although measures had been heightened since November, the house had long invested in security at its shows because of the number of celebrities and wealthy clients. As a result, he said, the latest measures did not represent a significant escalation.But he added: “The best security are the police you don’t see. I pointed that out to the Fédération.”
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
