Head of T.S.A. Out After Tests Reveal Flaws - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
The Department of Homeland Security on Monday reassigned the acting director of the Transportation Security Administration and ordered the agency to revise its security procedures after screeners at airport checkpoints failed to detect weapons and other prohibited items 95 percent of the time in a covert test.Jeh Johnson, the secretary of Homeland Security, which oversees the T.S.A., said that he took the findings of the investigation by the department’s inspector general “very seriously.” He called on the T.S.A. to retrain airport security officers, retest screening equipment and increase its use of covert testing in airports.In the investigation, undercover agents were able to get prohibited items through security checkpoints in 67 of 70 instances, according to ABC News, which first reported the findings.Melvin Carraway, the acting administrator of the T.S.A., was replaced by the acting deputy, Mark Hatfield. In April, President Obama nominated Vice Adm. Peter Neffenger of the Coast Guard to be the agency’s next administrator.Mr. Johnson directed T.S.A. officials to revise procedures for screenings and extend training programs beyond checkpoint officers to include supervisory personnel. He said in a statement that he would meet with executives from companies that develop airport security equipment, and receive biweekly progress reports from a newly appointed team of senior officials who will oversee the new standards.
Though Mr. Johnson said that numbers like the security failure rate in the new report “never look good out of context,” the swift and broad measures to overhaul screenings indicated what Mr. Johnson called “specific vulnerabilities” at airport checkpoints. According to the ABC News report, one undercover agent was stopped when he set off an alarm, but the T.S.A. screener failed during a pat-down to detect a fake explosive device taped to his back.Mr. Johnson asked the Senate to confirm Admiral Neffenger’s nomination “as quickly possible.”
A version of this article appears in print on June 2, 2015, on page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: Head of T.S.A. Out After Tests Reveal Flaws.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
