NEWS WATCH: SECURITY; Help, I've Been Kidnapped. And Here's Where I Am. - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Technology|NEWS WATCH: SECURITY; Help, I've Been Kidnapped. And Here's Where I Am.
NEWS WATCH: SECURITY; Help, I've Been Kidnapped. And Here's Where I Am.
Laptop theft is a nagging worry for business travelers and those who compute on the go. While the computer can in theory be replaced, confidential and personal data stored on it may be priceless. So the nTracker by SyNet Electronics aims to protect both your hardware and your software.Once installed and configured on a laptop, the nTracker software sends a periodic e-mail message to the mailbox of your choice, listing the Internet Protocol (I.P.) address the computer is using (even if it is in your possession and everything is fine). This can help the authorities locate a stolen machine when it is being used online. During the nTracker setup process, the user is asked to create a password that must be entered periodically. If the laptop is stolen and the correct password is not entered by the thief after three tries, nTracker encrypts specified folders on the machine and the screen displays a message that the computer has been stolen.The nTracker program works with Windows 98 SE and later and sells for $50 at www.synet.biz, where a trial version is also available to download. As an added security feature, the program can be uninstalled only with the original software CD.To prevent thieves from booting your computer from a Windows installation disc and simply reformatting your hard drive to evade nTracker, the company suggests disabling the computer's ability to start up from a CD or diskette in the system's BIOS settings and then password-protecting the BIOS itself to prevent tampering. There is a catch, however: you have to remember your passwords.J.D. Biersdorfer Continue reading the main story
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
