North Korea Launches Rocket Seen as Cover for a Missile Test - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Asia Pacific|North Korea Launches Rocket Seen as Cover for a Missile Test
North Korea Launches Rocket Seen as Cover for a Missile Test
An object rising above North Korean territory as seen from the Chinese border city of Dandong on Sunday.
SEOUL, South Korea — Defying warnings of tougher sanctions from Washington, North Korea launched a rocket on Sunday that Western experts believe is part of a program to develop intercontinental ballistic missile technologies.The rocket blasted off from Tongchang-ri, the North’s main satellite launch site near its northwestern border with China, a spokesman for the South Korean Defense Ministry said.President Park Geun-hye of South Korea called an emergency meeting of top national security advisers on Sunday to address the launch, her office said. South Korea, the United States and Japan also requested an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council.In Washington, Secretary of State John Kerry called the launch a “major provocation, threatening not only the security of the Korean Peninsula, but that of the region and the United States as well.” Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser, said it was “a flagrant violation of multiple United Nations Security Council resolutions.”North Korea earlier notified the International Maritime Organization, the United Nations agency overseeing navigation safety, that it planned to launch a rocket between Sunday and Feb. 14 to put a satellite into orbit. After the launch on Sunday, North Korea said that it had succeeded in doing so, and South Korea acknowledged that it appeared to be the case.The United States and allied nations had condemned North Korea’s plan because they consider its satellite program to be a sort of cover for developing an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of delivering a nuclear bomb. Under a series of Security Council resolutions, North Korea is prohibited from developing nuclear weapons or ballistic-missile technologies.Sung-Yoon Lee, a professor at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, said the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, whose family has ruled the country for seven decades, wanted to show off advances in his missile and nuclear programs just before the Feb. 16 birthday of his father, Kim Jong-il, who died in 2011. Pyongyang has timed some of its earlier nuclear and rocket tests to major national anniversaries.
A South Korean soldier watched a news report on North Korea’s rocket launch. President Park Geun-hye of South Korea called an emergency meeting of top national security advisers.
North Korea insists its space program is peaceful, intended to put scientific satellites into orbit. It has attempted several launches since 1998, finally succeeding in putting a small satellite into space in 2012.But the United States and its allies consider the program a pretext for developing technologies that can also be used to build an intercontinental ballistic missile. The North’s launch of a three-stage rocket on Sunday, after a similar test in 2012, showed that the country was determined to acquire them despite sanctions imposed by the Security Council.
With the launch, North Korea was also defying China, which had issued strong appeals not to proceed. In flouting China, the North’s only treaty ally, Mr. Kim was showing the ultimate disrespect to the government that has continued to trade with him, including sending oil that keeps the military and the rudimentary economy working.A senior Chinese diplomat, Wu Dawei, traveled to Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, early last week with the specific message that the launch should not go ahead. Chinese analysts conceded that Mr. Wu had an impossible assignment, and he returned to Beijing on Thursday night unsuccessful.Mr. Kim appears confident that he can continue to show contempt for his ally, believing, it seems, that China fears his ability to turn on it. Beijing has resisted Washington’s effort to place tough sanctions on the North since a nuclear test last month, concerned that the move might destabilize its neighbor.In a statement released on Sunday after Japan, South Korea and the United States pressed for firmer action, China called for calm and said the major powers should “act cautiously.”The Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, said, “China expresses regret over the launch with ballistic missile technology carried out by North Korea despite wide opposition from the international community.”Dialogue was the best solution, the statement said, echoing a long-held position by Beijing that talks with North Korea that include the United States and China should be resumed.
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning.
South Korea said the launch on Sunday showed that efforts to end the North’s nuclear and missile programs through dialogue no longer worked.“They just gave North Korea time to advance its nuclear capabilities,” Cho Tae-yong, first deputy director of national security of the South Korean presidential office, said in a statement.
Mr. Cho said “the only way to make North Korea abandon its nuclear weapons development” was through “effective and strong sanctions.”“We will continue to apply pressure so North Korea has no option but to change,” he said.The North’s latest move is sure to add impetus to the United States’ call for tougher sanctions and for a more vigorous missile defense for its allies in the region.Hours after the North declared the success of its launch on Sunday, the United States and South Korea jointly announced that they had begun discussing deployment of the American Thaad ballistic missile defense system. China, the South’s largest trade partner, has warned it would consider the system’s presence in the South a threat to its security.Washington and its regional allies, South Korea and Japan, deployed Aegis destroyers and PAC-3 missile interceptors in case debris from the rocket hurtled toward them. North Korea is widely believed to have at least several nuclear weapons. Although North Korea can learn much about the technology to build ballistic missiles from satellite launches, putting a satellite into orbit does not guarantee an ability to deliver a nuclear warhead on an intercontinental ballistic missile.North Korea has never tested a ballistic-missile version of its Unha-series rockets. After four nuclear tests by the North, Western analysts were still unsure whether the country had mastered the technology to build a warhead small enough to mount on a long-range missile.They were also debating how close the country had come to acquiring the ability to build a warhead that could survive the intense heat while re-entering the atmosphere, as well as a guidance system capable of delivering a warhead close to a target.The Unha-3 rocket, if modified to carry a 2,200-pound warhead instead of a satellite, could have enough range to reach Alaska and possibly Hawaii, David Wright, co-director of the Global Security Program at the Union of Concerned Scientists, wrote in his blog on Friday.
Somini Sengupta contributed reporting from the United Nations, and Jane Perlez from Beijing.
A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2016, on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: North Korean Rocket Launch Called ‘Provocation’.
Activity at North Korea Site Suggests Preparations for Rocket Launch
Activity at North Korea Site Suggests Preparations for Rocket Launch
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
