Rocket Suggests North Korea Made Small Gains in Technology, South Says - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Asia Pacific|Rocket Suggests North Korea Made Small Gains in Technology, South Says
Rocket Suggests North Korea Made Small Gains in Technology, South Says
A North Korean man in the town of Sinuiju as seen from across the Yalu River in the border city of Dandong, China.
Johannes Eisele/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
The rocket launched by North Korea on Sunday had a longer range and carried a heavier payload than the one used to put a satellite in orbit in 2012, indicating that Pyongyang had made modest advances in its rocket technology, the South Korean Defense Ministry said on Tuesday.The launch on Sunday was condemned by South Korea, the United States and other countries, which consider such efforts by the North to be a cover for developing intercontinental ballistic missile technology.The rocket, the Kwangmyongsong, or shining star, put a satellite into orbit nine minutes and 29 seconds after its takeoff from the Tongchang-ri launch site in the country’s northwest, according to Defense Ministry officials, who briefed journalists on the condition of anonymity.
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning.
It resembled the Unha-3 rocket that North Korea used to launch a satellite in 2012, but the officials said the satellite on Sunday was heavier. The ministry’s analysis indicated that the new rocket, if successfully reconfigured as a missile, could fly more than 7,400 miles with a warhead of 1,100 to 1,300 pounds, compared with 6,200 miles for the Unha-3 launched in 2012 — in both cases, far enough to reach the West Coast of the United States.But North Korea has never flight-tested a long-range ballistic missile, which requires technology that enables a warhead to survive re-entry into the atmosphere. It is also unclear how close North Korea has come to miniaturizing a nuclear bomb so it could be mounted on a missile.
The North’s 2012 launch was its first successful attempt to put a satellite into orbit, but South Korean officials later said that the satellite appeared to be tumbling out of control and that the North was unable to communicate with it. The Defense Ministry officials said on Tuesday that it was too soon to tell whether the satellite launched on Sunday was functioning normally.After the 2012 launch, South Korea said it had salvaged the wreckage of the rocket’s first stage and found that many of its components were off-the-shelf items made by other countries. The first stage of the rocket launched on Sunday disintegrated over the ocean west of South Korea, in a deliberate effort to ensure that it could not be recovered and analyzed, the Defense Ministry officials said.Also on Tuesday, President Park Geun-hye spoke by telephone with President Obama and later with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, reaffirming their intent to push for “strong and effective” new sanctions against North Korea at the United Nations Security Council, Ms. Park’s office said. They also agreed to pursue additional sanctions independent of the United Nations, Ms. Park’s office said.
A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 2016, on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Advances Seen in Rocket Fired by North Korea.
North Korea Nuclear Threat Cited by James Clapper, Intelligence Chief
China Struggles for Balance in Response to North Korea’s Boldness
North Korea Launches Rocket Seen as Cover for a Missile Test
To Build a Ski Resort Under U.N. Sanctions, North Korea Turned to China
North Korea Nuclear Threat Cited by James Clapper, Intelligence Chief
China Struggles for Balance in Response to North Korea’s Boldness
North Korea Launches Rocket Seen as Cover for a Missile Test
To Build a Ski Resort Under U.N. Sanctions, North Korea Turned to China
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
