Safeguarding the Games Is Costly but Effective - NYTimes.com
campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/sports, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/sports, position: Bar1
BaseballN.F.L.College FootballN.B.A.College BasketballHockeySoccerGolfTennisInternational Sports
OLYMPICS: SECURITY; Safeguarding the Games Is Costly but Effective
After 12 days of the Salt Lake Olympics, judging irregularities in figure skating have caused a greater stir than security threats.
A senior official with the Utah Olympic Public Safety Command said today that security plans and operations that could end up costing the federal government more than $400 million have worked to near perfection and that no incident of any consequence has threatened any Olympic sites or competitions.
''The challenge has always been how to make sure nothing happens,'' Maj. Stuart Smith, deputy director of the safety command, said from the command center, where officials from 60 agencies are monitoring Olympic security data. ''It is impossible to guarantee, but there has been an extraordinary amount of hard work to try.''
So far, security personnel have responded to a small number of incidents, including bomb scares and a man who was arrested for trying to scale the fence that surrounds the living quarters of athletes on the University of Utah campus.
In addition, Smith said, 11 small private planes have ventured into restricted airspace over Salt Lake City since the Olympics began on Feb. 8, and several of them were escorted to the ground by fighter jets.
''None was of any concern after we investigated and looked at the pilot,'' he said. ''In every case, they were innocent mistakes. One was just a case of a pleasure flight that wandered off course, and the pilot has his radio turned down.''
The quick response to even small planes, Smith said, reflected the heightened concern of security officials since Sept. 11 provided lessons about the use of airplanes as weapons and later examples, like the 15-year-old boy who slammed a single-engine plane into an office building last month in Tampa, Fla.
Those incidents led the Bush administration to make Olympic security a major priority, as evidenced by visits within weeks of the opening by Tom Ridge, director of the Office of Homeland Security, and Attorney General John Ashcroft.
Of all the aspects of Olympic security plans, nothing was tightened more than those dealing with air traffic, including new rules for the Olympics governing where and when planes can fly in Utah airspace. The need for the changes was the driving force behind a request to the federal government for more money after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
Smith said extensive training and incident simulation before the Olympics enabled security officials to fine-tune most aspects of their planned responses to trouble. The training, he said, was so intense that they have not found much need to tinker with things since competition began.
One reason for that, he said, is a new computer-generated information program that allows security officers in the field to use wireless laptops to gain instant access to all sorts of intelligence information that would assist those responding to a major security problem.
The system, known as Ramsafe and developed by a company owned by the former Atlanta deputy police chief Jonathan S. Gordon, is a key component in allowing officials from 60 federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to coordinate their response to a given problem.
Gordon said he offered the system free to Salt Lake City planners in the hope that security officials of future large events would be interested in buying it. Already, he said, consultants from Athens, site of the 2004 Summer Olympics, and Turin, Italy, site of the 2006 Winter Olympics have discussed using the system as part of their security plans.
''Our objective,'' Gordon said, ''was to get the system Olympic tested. For us, that's what this has been about.''
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/sports, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/sports, position: Inv1
