Early Concerns Fade Away As Competition Takes Over - NYTimes.com
campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/sports, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/sports, position: Bar1
BaseballN.F.L.College FootballN.B.A.College BasketballHockeySoccerGolfTennisInternational Sports
OLYMPICS: SECURITY; Early Concerns Fade Away As Competition Takes Over
Richard M. Wirick, a civic booster who owns a shoe store in this city's downtown, feared the worst when he got a call at home this week from a state law enforcement officer assigned to the 2002 Olympic Winter Games.
He thought it might be about security, the watchword of these Games. He thought something might be happening, perhaps even an international incident.
It was, sort of. A representative of the government of Greece had a plane to catch, and he wondered if Wirick could open his store a little early, so that he could buy a pair of shoes.
Through diplomatic and law enforcement channels, the message was conveyed, the crisis resolved, the exchange made.
Timberland. Casual. The climber's model. ''Hard to come by, in Greece,'' Wirick said.
That has been pretty much the way these Games have progressed through the first week. Security is everywhere -- the police, metal detectors, bomb-sniffing dogs and less obvious plainclothes officers fill the sites and the streets -- but the precautions have almost become a part of the scenery, a backdrop, instead of a worrisome reminder that this is the first Olympics in a changed world.
Early worries have lifted. Concerns, once so constricting, have loosened if not entirely fallen away. ''We are very relieved,'' said Wirick, who has owned the Oxford Shop, Shoes for Men, for 50 years.
People tend to laugh more standing in line for a street party featuring cold Budweiser than they gripe standing in line at metal detectors at admission gates for hockey, skating and other hot-ticket sports. They are very angry -- well, everyone except maybe the Russians -- at the much-questioned outcome of the pairs figure skating competition, but they are taking random patdowns and bag searches with a shrug and a smile.
Even their unhappiness is of a more pedestrian kind -- at jacked-up prices at hotels, weak American beer, traffic that makes them late for their favorite sports -- than any kind of lingering anxiety from the Sept. 11 attacks, the war that followed or the potential for more terrorism.
An anthrax scare at the Salt Lake City airport -- it turned out to be a false positive reading on a detection device -- garnered only a few paragraphs in most newspapers and seemed to fade from the minds of people here almost overnight.
''People are more interested in how the judges in the figure skating messed up,'' said Eric A. Gilzean, who owns Edinburgh Castle, a shop offering Distinctive Gifts from Scotland, on South Main Street. ''Security is the last thing on their minds.''
Canadian hockey fans do not talk about Osama bin Laden as they chant and march -- and occasionally stagger -- across Temple Street.
Instead of sirens, there is the incessant ringing of cowbells by the visitors from the Netherlands, who are celebrating their country's victories in -- well, actually, they started ringing them before the opening ceremony and have not stopped.
''I feel very much safe, like in Greece,'' said Konstantinos Sarris, an archaeologist from Athens, who works with the Hellenic Cultural Heritage exhibit that is part of Cultural Olympiad 2001-2004. ''You can see that in people's faces. No tension at all.''
Politicians have said that Salt Lake City is the safest place on the planet because of the security in place. And there is, from almost everyone you ask, a feeling of being looked over, protected.
''People know that we have pulled out all the stops,'' said Gilzean.
But the general feeling of well-being is further sugar-coated and cushioned by the very nature of the people here.
In a Chick-fil-A in a downtown mall, a teenager politely asked a tourist if he would mind if he sold him his sandwich, waffle fries and iced tea as a combo meal ''so it will be cheaper for you.''
At a Denny's, near downtown, a hostess gave free stuffed animals to children. At an Italian restaurant, a waitress bent the rules and set up a round of shots -- well after the midnight deadline for serving booze -- so that an out-of-town visitor could properly celebrate his birthday.
The feeling of safety may also be a simple matter of common sense. The international visitors know that the hatred of terrorists in the Middle East and Central Asia is focused almost entirely on the United States and Israel, not at the wider world. While they know that a repeat of the tragedy of the 1972 Munich Games is possible, they doubt that terrorists from overseas would risk turning the world against them even more with an attack on such an international gathering.
''It would put the whole world against them,'' Wirick said.
United States tourists say that if there is an attack, it would likely be from domestic terrorists who want to embarrass the nation in the eyes of the world. But that threat, too, seems remote in a place where a vast majority of the people just want to have a good time, cheer for their country's athletes, and go home with suitcases filled with souvenirs.
The early concern has hurt some merchants, however. Fears of traffic congestion -- and that terrorists might single out crowds on the street -- have scared some people away from downtown, especially locals who otherwise might have drifted there to buy some souvenirs of their own.
''They did such a dandy job of scaring us,'' said Pam O'Mara, who recently opened an art store in downtown. But every day, the fears seem to lessen. In their place are joy and agony, depending on a timer's watch, or a score.
If there were a vote, of course, bin Laden would still probably be the most disliked person here. Followed by a few figure-skating judges.
Photo: Sheila Knoepke, of Minnesota, center, shared a laugh with other women while waiting in line to get through security at Utah Olympic Park this week. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/sports, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/sports, position: Inv1
