SECURITY; The Broken Calm Of a Suburban Campus - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
N.Y. / Region|SECURITY; The Broken Calm Of a Suburban Campus
WITH a police helicopter circling above, the normal calm of the campus of Fairleigh Dickinson University here, built on a former country estate, was shattered last week. Campus entrances and exits were barricaded after a brawl that left one student shot and six other people injured.A common reaction was disbelief.Few violent crimes have occurred at the groomed 178-acre campus, which straddles Madison and Florham Park. But at an April 3 party sponsored by the Association of Black Collegians at the student center, a student, Robert Brock-Murray, 21, was shot in the stomach, four men were stabbed, one was struck with a bottle and another by a bench. Mr. Brock-Murray has been released from the hospital.''It was the closest I've ever been to violence,'' said Justine Miller, a freshman theater student from Stratford, in Camden County. ''When I called to tell my parents, they didn't believe me.''Dr. Kenneth Greene, the interim provost at the campus, estimated that 250 to 300 people attended the party, including students from the school's Teaneck campus about 30 miles away and other people who were not enrolled as students. Five men, none of them Fairleigh Dickinson students, face charges.''Society has moved into the Ivory Tower,'' Dr. Greene said.The brawl was the most recent example of violence on or near New Jersey's college campuses. In March, three female students were raped in their apartment a block from the New Brunswick campus.
In October, a student at Rider University and another youth were shot and injured near the school's Lawrenceville student center, after a visitor fired a handgun into a crowd of 500 partygoers.A month later, two Rutgers students were beaten with a baseball bat during an altercation outside of a social club on the New Brunswick campus. Both men sustained severe head injuries. Continue reading the main story
Even the Florham Park campus has been struck by violence before. In April 2002, a freshman student, Tiffany Bratton, was found strangled in her room. Police later arrested Ms. Bratton's former boyfriend, who was a student at another college.In 2000, three students died and dozens more were injured in a dormitory fire at Seton Hall University in South Orange. Two former students have been charged with felony murder and reckless manslaughter in connection with the fire.Statistics collected on campus violence from decades past tend to be incomplete, and the federal government has only required colleges to report their crime statistics to the Department of Education since 1999. The federal law, known as the Clery Act, is intended to provide students, parents, faculty and college applicants with some sense of the criminal activity on a given campus.At Drew University, down the road from Fairleigh Dickinson in Madison, Dr. James M. O'Kane, a sociologist who studies violence, said that a push toward diversity has likely led to incidents nationwide, but added that campuses remain relatively safe.''We want to be open communities. We want to share ideas,'' said Dr. O'Kane. ''But when you get different groups together, you're going to have some great things happening and you're going to have some conflict. The problem comes with the person who has no real connection with the university and therefore no social controls placed on them. That person has no genuine involvement with an academic community.''In the aftermath of the shootings at Rider, administrators have reviewed procedures for allowing guests at campus events. Dr. Anthony Campbell, the dean of students, said that cameras have been placed in parking areas and that Lawrence Township police have been hired for weekend patrols. He also said that social events are being assessed for potential violence, and that numbers of security officers are assigned based on the assessment.
''We're going back to the old philosophy of the patrolman on the block,'' said Dr. Campbell, who is a psychologist. ''The idea is to do more preventative work, to pair security officers with residence halls and start communicating with people.''In considering the shooting at Fairleigh Dickinson, Russlan Hoffmann, director of campus safety at Saint Peter's College in Jersey City, said that he perceived several missteps. Saint Peter's routinely posts security officers outside of campus parties and shares information about events with Jersey City police.''I don't want to criticize another college, but Fairleigh Dickinson did a lot of things they're going to have to look at,'' said Mr. Hoffmann, a former lieutenant with the New York City Police Department. Saint Peter's has not had a shooting, rape or sexual assault during the past four years .''They should have had security appropriate for the situation,'' Mr. Hoffmann said. ''There should have been a lot more coordination and communication with local police.''Mr. Hoffmann also stressed the need for a ''a very large number of visible video cameras set up on campus, both to record evidence of crimes and to inform would-be criminals of their presence.''Fairleigh Dickinson has no security cameras on campus, according to a university spokeswoman.On the campus in Florham Park, Dr. Greene said the university's guest policy was being reviewed. Currently, any guest must register with a signature at the door, with one guest allowed for each student host. During the Association of Black Collegians' party, the guests had shown identification at the door, but apparently did not sign in, Dr. Greene said. Students also said there had been some alcohol at the party, in violation of university guidelines.The association's party followed a fashion show held earlier in the evening on Fairleigh Dickinson's Metropolitan campus in Teaneck.Dr. James Kenny, a criminologist with Fairleigh Dickinson's School of Criminal Justice, cited the frustration of ensuring student safety.
''Some violence evolves and sometimes it is very spontaneous,'' said Dr. Kenny, who is also co-chairman of the threat assessment team for the Teaneck campus, where faculty and administrators meet to discuss student trends and events. Last year, a similar committee was formed on the Florham Park campus.''For instance, alcohol is a key issue,'' he said. ''We have a dry campus, but people can still walk out on the streets and go to liquor stores. We have the protocols, but how do you stop someone?''Asked about increasing police patrols on campus, the mayors of Madison and Florham Park agreed they would be willing to consider doing so. Police from the two towns were the first to respond to the fracas, and the shooting actually took place shortly after police arrived. Florham's mayor, Frank D. Tinari, said that ''we all hope and pray this was a one-time event, but perhaps it's time to open a dialogue with the university.''Despite the helicopter searchlights and the barricades, Madison's mayor, Woody Kerkeslager, said the borough's well-heeled downtown had not been affected, although the shooting ''had made everybody here curious.''''Madison has begun to consider the risks of daily life in the 21st century,'' he said.After a brief closing of facilities, activities on Fairleigh Dickinson's campus resumed last week, with little surprise to Adam Aguiar, a sophomore biology major from Tinton Falls. The campus is used by about 3,700 of the university's 11,000 graduate and undergraduate students.''It's not really at all like what the news or networks are portraying,'' he said, pulling up the hood of his sweatshirt.''We're a laid-back campus. I wish it was more exciting here.'' Continue reading the main story
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
