campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Bar1
THE Arena Players Repertory Theater in East Farmingdale recently completed a run of Andrew Bergman's comedy, ''Social Security.'' And now the Studio Theater in Lindenhurst is presenting the same play.
Although the dialogue may be identical to the Arena production, the change of cast, director and crew makes Studio's ''Social Security'' a new experience.
The play begins in the trendy, upscale East Side apartment of Barbara and David Kahn, owners of a successful modern-art gallery. The Kahns are awaiting the arrival of Barbara's sister and brother-in-law, Trudy and Martin Heyman.
Since Trudy and Martin are not in the habit of driving in from their home in Mineola just to spend a pleasant evening in Manhattan, and since Trudy would not tell Barbara over the phone what the problem is, something is obviously up.
That something turns out to be Sophie, Barbara's and Trudy's mother. Sophie had been living with, and driving to despair, the already extremely tense, overwrought and repressed Trudy. But now it appears that Trudy and Martin's daughter has gone away to college and has started majoring in sex.
Consequently, the overprotective parents are on their way to Buffalo to rescue their daughter from a cesspool of sin, and the demanding Sophie has to stay with Barbara and David.
Once having set up its structure of stereotypes and opposites, the play becomes a lengthy series of jokes about old people, sex, repressed people, rebellious youths and the rationality of liberalism.
Unfortunately, the entire first act is spent setting things up; as a result, the plot doesn't begin to evolve until the beginning of Act II.
Nonetheless, the director, Barbara Meridith, has shaped the material cleverly so that the play's thinness is not so apparent. She also has kept the action lively and has given the production some fine directorial snap.
The actors work hard to give some depth to these cardboard characters. That they do not always succeed is more the fault of the playwright than the cast.
Barbara, the free-spirited, easygoing sister, is played by Ruthe McKeown, who gives Barbara a tension she might reasonably be expected to have, but that contradicts the character's supposed easy manner. Ted Bardy gives a shallow performance as David, the art dealer. The scene-stealer in this show is Susan McCartney, who turns Trudy into a harridan whose rage at the world around her is barely suppressed. What this Trudy lacks is a vulnerability. At the play's ending, we tend to be more glad than sympathetic over her troubles.
Sophie, the difficult aging mother, is played by Enid Blaymore. Ms. Blaymore is attractive and charmingly flirtatious as the woman who rediscovers herself.
Charlie Newman overplays the role of Maurice Koenig, the famous, wealthy artist who rekindles in Sophie her will to live as something more than a ward of her daughters.
Studio's version of ''Social Security'' is neither better nor worse than Arena's, but it is different. If you have seen and enjoyed this play in some other production, either at the Arena Players or on Broadway, you will also enjoy it here.
''Social Security'' is a bit of comic fluff, but it is a crowd-pleaser. It will continue at Studio Theater through Saturday.
Photo of Ruthe McKeown as Barbara in 'Social Security'
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Inv1
