U.N. Envoy for Syria Says Peace Talks Will Begin Friday - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Middle East|U.N. Envoy for Syria Says Peace Talks Will Begin Friday
U.N. Envoy for Syria Says Peace Talks Will Begin Friday
By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE and SOMINI SENGUPTAJAN. 25, 2016
An Army of Islam fighter on Saturday on the eastern outskirts of Damascus, Syria, after a government-held area was infiltrated.
Amer Almohibany/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
The United Nations announced on Monday that it would aim to start Syria peace talks on Friday, as Syrian military forces, aided by Russian air power, made new gains on the battlefield, suggesting that even these still precarious diplomatic negotiations would bring little respite in the fighting for the next several months.The United Nations envoy here, Staffan de Mistura, in his announcement of the postponed start date, declined to say who would be invited to represent the opposition — a major sticking point — or mention what would happen to President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, the lightning rod of the conflict.Speaking on the day the talks were intended to start, he told reporters that he would only send invitations on Tuesday, and shuttle among various groups of Syrian representatives until they can agree to meet face to face. That could go on, in a staggered fashion, for six months.“We will be holding those proximity talks until we can hold direct talks,” Mr. de Mistura said. “We will remain adaptable and creative.”Secretary of State John Kerry, meanwhile, urged both sides to go to Geneva with an intention to negotiate in good faith. “If they’re not serious, war will continue,” he said Monday during a visit to Laos, promising to continue his conversations about the negotiations with his Russian and Saudi counterparts.
“You can lead a horse to water, you can’t make it drink,” he added. “You’ve got to give people an opportunity here to sit down and negotiate.”
Speaking to Syrian students in the city of Stavropol on Monday, President Vladimir V. Putin said Russia had “no intention of meddling in the state structure” in Syria.
The talks would come after months of effort, led by the United States and Russia, to end a conflict that has killed at least 250,000 people and scattered more than four million refugees across the region over nearly five years. It follows the adoption of a Security Council resolution in mid-December that aimed to bring the warring parties to the table, with the goal of agreeing to a national cease-fire, with a transitional governing body within six months and elections in 18 months. Continue reading the main story
The diplomatic developments come as Russian forces appear to be expanding their campaigns on the ground. Mr. Assad’s military, with Russian support, made significant strides in recent days, regaining control of a significant chunk of the rural coast around Latakia, a government stronghold.Shadi, an activist in the region who spoke on the condition he not be fully identified, said the government had seized about 30 villages in Latakia’s northern countryside in the past few days. The insurgents still held two villages, al-Biyadiyeh and Oubin, where thousands of residents who had fled from other places — many of them affiliated with the Free Syrian Army — had taken shelter.Shadi said the insurgents “are not fighting in an organized way,” and would “continue fighting until they die,” adding that the group included Turkmen who “were expecting support from Turkey, but it never arrived.”Meanwhile, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported on Monday that 23 people, including four commanders and 15 other fighters from the Ahrar al-Sham rebel movement, were killed by a suicide bomber in Aleppo. Abed, a fighter from the movement, said the bomber might have been from the Islamic State, but, referring to government forces, added, “The regime targets the area from time to time.”The peace talks, the first in two years, have been stalled largely over the question of who would attend on behalf of the opposition.
Over four years of war has forced more than four million to flee the country, fueling a migrant crisis in the Middle East and Europe.
Saudi Arabia has assembled a coalition of disparate opposition groups into a High Negotiations Committee, which said it would meet Tuesday in Riyadh to discuss its participation. Russia has called for a separate opposition delegation, but the opposition and its backers see the groups it supports as too close to the Syrian government and designed to fracture the rebel bloc.
Complicating matters, Turkey has said it will pull its support for the talks if the opposition bench includes a representative of a Syrian Kurdish group.For the moment, Mr. de Mistura said two groups were certain to be excluded: the Islamic State and the Nusra Front. Russia wants to see that outlawed list expanded, something Saudi Arabia is expected to reject.The Security Council resolution deems Mr. de Mistura the arbiter of who is invited to the Geneva talks, and he has said in recent days that he would not issue invitations until he was sure who would come.On Monday, asked repeatedly whether one or more opposition delegations would be invited, Mr. de Mistura demurred. He said he would not divulge what he called “organizational details” but suggested that he would seek to have an opposition “as inclusive as possible,” and include representatives of women’s groups and civil society to serve as “advisers.””You could have quite a lot of simultaneous meetings taking place,” he said.Diplomats say the first test of the government’s commitment to the talks will be in whether it lifts the sieges on rebel-controlled towns and lets in humanitarian aid. On Tuesday, United Nations officials plan to hold a news conference here to drive home the urgency of getting food and medicine to 400,000 Syrians living in such areas. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations has pointedly held the government principally responsible, calling it a war crime to use starvation as a weapon of war.
The United Nations envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura, said the talks on ending the war in Syria were rescheduled to Friday because of “intense disagreements.”
Photo by Salvatore Di Nolfi/Keystone, via Associated Press.
Mr. de Mistura said the goal of the talks remained a national cease-fire. In a bid to mollify an anxious opposition bloc, he said the framework for any negotiations would be a road map laid out in 2012, called the Geneva Communique, which envisions a transitional governing body with full executive powers.The United States has backed away, bit by bit, from the demand that Mr. Assad leave office immediately, but has remained committed to the 2012 Geneva Communique.The Security Council resolution envisions the establishment of a transitional government in six months. But it deliberately avoids the question of Mr. Assad’s future, including whether he would be allowed to run in the prescribed 2018 elections. That ambiguity has led to another round of anger among many in the opposition.
Mr. Kerry insisted in his public statement on Monday that the White House did not think there could be peace in Syria with Mr. Assad at the helm, but also said, “It’s up to the Syrians to decide what happens to Assad.”That echoes the longstanding Russian position, and it exacerbates the anxieties of the opposition, who say they want an agreement to lift the sieges on key rebel-held towns and the release of prisoners before they come here. Over the weekend, opposition representatives who met with Mr. Kerry behind closed doors in Riyadh expressed new doubts about Washington’s commitment to ending Mr. Assad’s reign.Mohammed Alloush of the High Negotiations Committee said Mr. Kerry urged the opposition to come here without any conditions. “That was his message: Don’t put preconditions,” Mr. Alloush said in an interview. “We were listening. We got annoyed. Personally I wasn’t surprised.”Mr. Alloush is part of the Army of Islam, a large Islamist faction operating mainly in rebel-held suburbs of Damascus, the Syrian capital, whose leader — Mr. Alloush’s cousin — was killed in a December airstrike.The United Nations’ six-month framework is apparently designed to send a message to both sides about investing in negotiations and not just grandstanding. But it also underscores the fact that no party expects results soon.
Nick Cumming-Bruce reported from Geneva, and Somini Sengupta from the United Nations. Hwaida Saad contributed reporting from Beirut, Lebanon.
A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 2016, on page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Delayed Syrian Peace Talks Are Scheduled to Begin on Friday, U.N. Says.
ISIS Video Appears to Show Paris Assailants Earlier in Syria and Iraq
U.S. Relies Heavily on Saudi Money to Support Syrian Rebels
ISIS Video Appears to Show Paris Assailants Earlier in Syria and Iraq
U.S. Relies Heavily on Saudi Money to Support Syrian Rebels
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
