U.S. Continues to Deport Central American Migrants - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|U.S. Continues to Deport Central American Migrants
Since late January, the immigration authorities have arrested 336 migrants from Central America for deportation, part of a continuing operation to toughen border enforcement, Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said Wednesday.Most of the people detained were youths who crossed the border in the last two years without their parents and who have turned 18, but did not win asylum or another legal status and were ordered deported by immigration courts. After migrants turn 18, they lose some protections given to minors who arrived without their parents.The Obama administration is moving ahead with deportations of migrants fleeing from three violence-racked countries in Central America, despite a furor among refugee advocates, Latino groups and Democratic lawmakers after about 120 migrants were arrested and targeted for deportation in a roundup in early January.Mr. Johnson has said, at times defiantly, that the deportations are necessary to maintain border security and curb illegal crossings. In a statement on Wednesday, he said he had ordered “Operation Border Guardian,” which began on Jan. 23, to continue the arrests and expulsions. Since Oct. 1, a total of 28,808 people apprehended at the border have been sent back to Central America on repatriation flights, officials said, and 128,000 Mexicans were returned to their country.“We must and will enforce the law in accordance with our enforcement priorities,” Mr. Johnson said.
The deportations in January caused widespread alarm in immigrant communities. More than 100 senators and House representatives, almost all Democrats, wrote to President Obama demanding an end to the raids. The contenders for the Democratic presidential nomination, Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, also denounced the raids and pledged to end them if elected.Most of the migrants arrested in early January were women and their children. Fewer than half of them, including young children, had been represented by lawyers in their asylum cases in court, records showed.
A version of this article appears in print on March 10, 2016, on page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Continues to Deport Central American Migrants .
244 Immigrants With Criminal Records Face Deportation in California
244 Immigrants With Criminal Records Face Deportation in California
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
