New Bag Helps Laptop Pass Airport Security - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
For years at airport security checkpoints, passengers have heard the
refrain, almost a dirge: “Laptops must be removed from their cases and placed on the belt.”Get ready for a
change. The Transportation Security Administration has given the go-ahead for passengers to use
pass through security without having to take their laptops out for the X-ray inspection.Kip Hawley, the agency’s
accept the new laptop cases as soon as they come on the market.Two of the biggest luggage manufacturers — Pathfinder Luggage and Targus —
say they are rushing to produce the new “checkpoint friendly” laptop cases and expect
them to be available by late September or early October.Two problems with the existing laptop cases are that security officers have difficulty seeing inside them with X-ray equipment, and many of the cases are so crammed with extra gear
include either a fold-down section in a bigger briefcase or a stand-alone protective sleeve that contains no extra clutter and can be readily viewed through the scanner.More than a half-dozen luggage manufacturers, among about 60 that initially responded to a T.S.A. request for proposals about three months ago, have submitted prototypes
for testing at checkpoints at three airports: Dulles, outside Washington; Austin-Bergstrom in Texas; and Ontario, near Los Angeles.The agency says that more than a quarter of all air travelers carry laptops through security.Along with having to remove shoes, the requirement to take a laptop out of its protective case has long rankled business travelers, who worry about damage to exposed computers as well as potential loss in the pileup of various travelers’ possessions on the other side of the X-ray station.Mr. Hawley, meanwhile, has often said that confusion at checkpoints is itself a security problem. Designing laptop cases that can improve customer service while keeping security at a high level is a way to better ensure a “calm and predictable” checkpoint environment, he said.“Threats have a hard time hiding in a calm environment,” he said. “Chaos is great camouflage.”Mr. Hawley said the agency had been working with various manufacturers to develop the new luggage designs. He predicted that various new laptop cases that conform to government requirements would be in wide use by the holidays in December.“On a conference call with industry representatives, I said that the T.S.A. will not be your gatekeeper on this,” Mr. Hawley said. “It all depends on how fast you can get to market. We won’t slow you down.”Ron Davis, the executive vice president of Pathfinder Luggage, said that his company had just started producing
its two new cases at a plant in the Philippines. He said both had been tested at checkpoints to ensure that they met government specifications.
“They don’t want anything obscuring the view of the laptop,” he said. “In our case, the material is nylon and foam, and the X-ray machine will see right through that.”
Pathfinder is making two models but plans others. One is a briefcase in which the attached laptop holder is exposed when the case is unzipped. The other is a wheeled carry-on with a removable laptop case.Mr. Davis estimated that the briefcase version would
$200.Targus, the largest maker of cases for laptops and notebook computers, is about to begin production at factories in China of four new models of checkpoint-compatible bags, said Al Giazzon,
the vice president for marketing.“We’ve got to produce a lot of them,” he said. “We’re currently scheduled for a late September or early October delivery of our first bags.”Among the bags Targus is producing is a backpack design. Mr. Giazzon said. He said that retailers were already clamoring for the bags, which will cost from $39 for a basic model to about $100 “for our corporate series, for heavy-duty travelers.”Mr. Hawley said that the T.S.A. has deliberately
avoided formally certifying various manufacturers’ bag designs.“Everybody is aware that the process of the government certifying a piece of security equipment involves a lot of time and red tape,” he said.
Instead, manufacturers were encouraged to come up with designs that would pass muster, and perhaps adopt a universal slogan or logo that says, “This bag is checkpoint-friendly,” he said.Mr. Hawley said he did not expect that the new laptops would create undue confusion after their introduction, since security officers would be well informed about them.To make sure the cases are easily identifiable, the T.S.A. said in its request for proposals sent to manufacturers in March that bags should be designed with “self-evident features,” including an absence of buckles, pockets or zippers.Manufacturers were also told that they could label the bags as “checkpoint friendly,” or use similar terms, but that they could not state nor imply that the bags were certified or approved by the T.S.A. or use a T.S.A. logo on them.It will be immediately apparent if a laptop case
is not properly designed for unobscured visual inspection because it will not give security officers a clear X-ray image, Mr. Hawley said.
will be removed from the belt for a close look by security officers, he said.Mr. Davis said that passengers who are forced to take a laptop out of its case and rerun it through the X-ray equipment will, in itself,
“checkpoint friendly” cases really are.“If a customer buys the new case and sends it through security and the security officer said, ‘Sorry, this doesn’t work,’ then you’ve got a very upset customer,” he said.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Bag Helps Laptop Pass Air Security.
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.
Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice
Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers
Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures
In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
