Terror Watch Checks of Air Passengers Now in U.S. Hands - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
WASHINGTON — Nearly a decade after the 2001 terrorist attacks, the federal government has as of this week completed taking over the task of matching the names of airline passengers against the terror watch list.Officials say the change, announced Tuesday by the Transportation Security Administration, should reduce false matches, while also making it somewhat harder for terrorists to carry out an attack.Previously, airlines have been responsible for comparing passenger names with terror watch lists, to identify passengers who must submit to more detailed screening, or the smaller number actually on a “no fly” list who are forbidden to board a plane.Now, under a program called Secure Flight, the federal government will start making the checks that had been done by 127 international
air carriers. In June it took over the watch-list checks from about 60
airlines that provide domestic flights in the United States.The T.S.A. administrator, John S. Pistole, said the change would allow the authorities to track airline reservations for flights headed to the United States or within its borders, typically soon after
a ticket is purchased. Hypothetically, Mr. Pistole said, this would allow them to detect
when several people whose names are on the watch list
book tickets to fly on the same day or to the same city.
As a result, in addition to making sure these passengers get extra scrutiny, including a pat-down at the security checkpoint, security officials could make sure that an air marshal is assigned to the flight.“It is another layer, an intelligence-based layer of security,” Mr. Pistole said. “We have to try to do the most we can before people get to the airport.”Under Secure Flight, about 99 percent of passengers are cleared to print boarding passes at home or at a self-serve kiosk, without being subject automatically to secondary screening.As first conceived, the federal takeover of the watch-list checks was going to include broader background checks like examining the credit records of passengers to try to develop profiles of possible terrorists, even if they were not on the official watch list. But civil liberties groups objected, resulting in the scaling down of the ambitions for the program and contributing to delays in starting it.As part of Secure Flight, passengers must provide their date of birth, sex and full legal name — information that must match
the identification they present at the airport. Officials hope this requirement will reduce the number of false matches, which lead to intense scrutiny
of passengers with similar names.Intelligence officials still must identify possible terrorists, and add them to watch lists, before they take flights, a task that the American authorities have not always proved capable of handling. Last December, for example, a Nigerian man tried to blow up a Detroit-bound plane, a flight he was allowed to board because he had not been added to a watch lists despite warnings that he might be a threat.
A version of this article appears in print on December 1, 2010, on page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Takes Over Airline Passenger Checks.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
