Security Dept. Falls Short of Goals, Auditors Report - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|Security Dept. Falls Short of Goals, Auditors Report
Security Dept. Falls Short of Goals, Auditors Report
WASHINGTON, Sept. 5 — The Homeland Security Department has failed to meet even half its performance expectations in the four years it has been in existence, Congressional auditors have concluded in a draft report obtained by The Associated Press.The department disagreed with the findings of the report, particularly with the way auditors defined and measured progress. The report, prepared by the Government Accountability Office, is to be released Thursday.The department’s primary mission is to prevent terrorist attacks and to minimize the damage should an attack take place. But the only area in which
auditors saw significant improvement was maritime security, the report said.The report measures progress in 14 mission and management areas. Auditors identified 171 performance expectations and found that the department had achieved fewer than half.The department has had success developing plans, but has not always been able to carry out the programs, like its efforts to identify places where people illegally enter the United States, the report said.
In a letter on July 20 to the G.A.O. comptroller general, David M. Walker, the department’s under secretary for management, Paul A. Schneider, accused the auditors of having shifted performance measures during their evaluation.“The G.A.O. report is based on a flawed methodology that results in an inaccurate representation of the department’s progress and fails to accurately reflect the department’s progress in many specific program areas,” Mr. Schneider wrote.During Congressional testimony Wednesday, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff defended the department’s progress and assured lawmakers that the country was safer than
attacks.“But if you ask me is the job of keeping us safe done, the answer to that is no,” Mr. Chertoff said. “It is not done. And it may not be done within our lifetimes.”The department was formed in the consolidation of 22 federal agencies in 2003. Since then, the accountability office has made nearly 700 recommendations for mission and management reforms.Experts, including G.A.O. auditors, have said it will take a department this large five to seven years to come together.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page A25 of the New York edition with the headline: Security Dept. Falls Short Of Goals, Auditors Report.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
