Air Security Guide Inadvertently Posted - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
WASHINGTON (AP) — The federal government improperly posted an internal guide to its airport passenger screening procedures on the Internet in a way that could offer insight into how to sidestep security.The document outlines who is exempt from certain additional screening measures, including members of the United States armed forces, governors and lieutenant governors, the mayor of the District of Columbia, and their immediate families.It offers examples of identification documents that screeners accept, including ID cards for members of Congress, federal air marshals and Central Intelligence Agency officials.Diplomatic pouches and certain foreign dignitaries with law enforcement escorts are not subjected to any screening, the document said, and certain methods of verifying identification documents are not used on all travelers during peak travel crushes.The Transportation Security Administration, which oversees airport security, said the document was outdated. The agency
on the Federal Business Opportunities site. A spokeswoman for the agency, Kristin Lee, said the posting was improper because confidential information was not protected.
As a result, some Web sites, using widely available software, were able to uncover the
text of sections that had been blacked out for security reasons. On Sunday, the Wandering Aramean blog pointed out the document in a posting titled “The T.S.A. makes another stupid move.”According to the blog, the security agency posted a redacted version of the document but did not delete the confidential
information from the file. Instead of removing the text, the government covered it up with a black box. But the text was still embedded in the document and could be uncovered.The agency asked that the document be removed from the Federal Business Opportunities site on Sunday, but copies of the document — with the redacted portions exposed — remain posted on other Web sites not controlled by the government.Ms. Lee said a review was under way, adding,
“T.S.A. is confident that screening procedures currently in place remain strong.”The document also describes these screening protocols:¶Individuals with a passport from Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Libya, Syria, Sudan, Afghanistan, Lebanon, Somalia, Iraq, Yemen or Algeria should be given additional screening unless there are specific instructions not to.¶Aircraft flight crew members in uniform with valid IDs are not subject to liquid, gel, aerosol and footwear restrictions.¶Wheelchair and scooter cushions, disabled people’s footwear that cannot be removed, prosthetic devices, casts, braces and orthopedic shoes
may be exempt from screening for explosives.The document, marked “sensitive security information,” includes instructions on how it should be stored to avoid compromising security: Electronic copies should be password-protected; hard copies should be in separate binders and stored in cabinets or desk drawers; and missing copies should be immediately reported.
A former T.S.A. administrator, Kip Hawley, said the document was not a road map for terrorists.“Hyperventilating that this is a breach of security that’s going to endanger the public is flat wrong,” Mr. Hawley said.In a letter to the agency, the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, Bennie G. Thompson, wrote, “Undoubtedly, this raises potential security concerns across our transportation system.”
A version of this article appears in print on December 9, 2009, on page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Air Security Guide Inadvertently Posted.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
