Bike Lockers to Be Moved Away From L.I.R.R. Tracks - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
N.Y. / Region|Bike Lockers to Be Moved Away From L.I.R.R. Tracks
RONKONKOMAUNLESS you’re one of the eight people renting
station here, you have probably never noticed them. Bolted to the sidewalk, looking like sturdy plastic storage containers, the lockers sit
alongside the south track, below the western end of the raised platform.But not for long.Because of their proximity to passengers and passing trains, the bicycle lockers could serve as
hiding places for bombs, according to the Metropolitan Transit Authority, which owns the property where the lockers are situated.
that the State Department of Transportation relocate
the lockers.Ronkonkoma will soon have its lockers moved, as will
six other stations: Central Islip, Farmingdale, Hicksville, Oakdale, Port Jefferson and Wantagh.The lockers, which belong to the State Department of Transportation, will be relocated to municipal lots near the stations in the next several months, said Eileen Peters, a
department spokeswoman. The longest distance cyclists will have to walk from their lockers to the trains will be two blocks in Port Jefferson, she said. The closest lockers will be about 60 feet from the tracks in Farmingdale.“We recognize that there are no known terrorist incidents involving lockers nationwide; nevertheless we recognize the M.T.A.’s concerns,” Ms. Peters said.
When applying for a locker, potential renters have to show identification and sign a contract that states
they will not use the lockers for storing anything but their bicycles, Ms. Peters said. The policy is to inspect the lockers twice a year, she said, but renters are informed that their lockers are subject to search at any time.“It’s been a very popular program,” Ms. Peters said of the eight-year-old bike locker initiative. “It’s the purest form of commuting that we can ask for to reduce the wear and tear on our highways.”The department keeps a total of 116 lockers at 15 train stations, Ms. Peters said, and 52 are being leased. Lockers are rented for $60 a year; and there is
Central Islip, East Northport, Ronkonkoma and Stony Brook stations are
in use. There are waiting lists in Central Islip, Ronkonkoma and Stony Brook.The lockers, which
are bolted to concrete slabs, Ms. Peters said. They will be demolished during removal and new ones will be installed. The
cost for the work and new lockers will be $89,000, she said.The department also plans to install
lockers at the Southampton, Bridgehampton, Copiague and Sayville
to 155, Ms. Peters said. The new lockers will also be located on
municipal lots near the stations.At Ronkonkoma there are bicycle racks in more conspicuous places than the lockers
near the taxi stand, the ticket office and the main westbound platform. Several bikes were chained to the racks on a recent Monday.Anthony Russo, 42, of Medford, walked off a train on a recent Monday evening with his bicycle.
He said he usually locks it up to one of the bike racks. Renting a locker is a hassle, he said, noting that the racks are more conveniently located.“I’m not concerned about anyone stealing it,” Mr. Russo said. His
A version of this article appears in print on , on page LI15 of the New York edition with the headline: Bike Lockers to Be Moved Away From L.I.R.R. Tracks.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
