Annoyances Mount Over the Body Scanner - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|Annoyances Mount Over the Body Scanner
YOU may think of this as the summer of the heat wave. I prefer to think of it as
the summer of the body scanner.As the Transportation Security Administration buys
these machines and installs them at more and more airport checkpoints, a lot of
having their initial encounters with them. And while I hear from large numbers of readers who hate the idea, it’s becoming increasingly clear that body scanners will soon be a standard part of the air travel experience.Today,
142 body scanners are in use at 41 airports, and the security administration
says it will have more than 450 installed by the end of the year.The rationale for this is
security threat. As was demonstrated by the infamous, if inept, underwear bomber last Christmas Day, a person can pass through airport metal detectors with chemical explosives hidden in clothing. Body scanners see through clothing, detecting any mass on the body, metal or not.While some critics claim that terrorists can defeat the technology by hiding explosive material in body cavities, the momentum for body scanners is strong. In late June, for example, legislation
was introduced in the Senate to require the security administration
to replace magnetometer metal detectors with body scanners at all airport checkpoints by 2013.
“Magnetometers are not enough in this post-9/11 world,” said Senator Bob Bennett, a Utah Republican who is the co-sponsor of the bill, along with Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat.The strongest opposition, of course, comes from those who feel the machines are an
invasion of personal privacy, but the security agency says
people are more worried about the real threat posed by nonmetallic explosives. Early this year, the agency began highlighting a USA Today/Gallup Poll conducted Jan.
5-6, in which 78 percent of respondents said they supported using body scanners.
The poll also found that women were twice as likely as men to say they would be “very uncomfortable” submitting to a body scan. Gallup put an optimistic face on that, saying that since 84 percent of respondents
effectively detect explosives, “air travelers have a compelling reason to potentially counter any personal modesty issues they have related to body scans.”Jacqueline Berlin, however, doesn’t think the reasoning is compelling at all. Like many women who replied to my recent columns on body scanners, she said, basically,
call me a prude, but I will do everything I can to avoid this even if it means reducing travel.“I’ve always been modest, but I’m not weird about it,” Ms. Berlin said in a telephone interview. Recently, while returning from a business trip, she declined to follow a screener’s direction to go through a body scanner at O’Hare International Airport, and was instead
taken aside for a full-body pat down.“They were rolling their eyes, like, ‘What’s wrong with her?’
like I was the first person ever to refuse,” she said. The pat down was public and, she said, embarrassingly thorough, and in a manner that she thought was punitive for refusing to use the body scanner.“When I got on the plane, I was still trembling,” she said. “And then I was thinking, O.K., if this is what it comes down to, if this is what it takes to get on an airplane, well, I’m going to choose not to travel by air whenever possible.”Ralph Nader also contacted me after recent columns on body scanners. He told me
that I and others in the media have failed to fully address concerns about the levels of radiation people receive from
spokeswoman for the security administration said that 99 of the body scanners now installed use a form of X-ray technology with radiation levels that are minimal and safe. The other 43 body scanners use a form of radio wave technology. More on that issue next week.)Mr. Nader said that he has so far managed to avoid body scanners. “Are you kidding? I never go through them,” he said. And he
that the machines will only add to the security annoyances that are forcing some people to avoid air travel.“Pretty soon, nobody is going to take a plane if they can drive instead,” he said. “I won’t take a plane if I can drive, even 400 miles, or take the train. Who wants to go through that stuff?”
A version of this article appears in print on July 20, 2010, on page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: Annoyances Mount Over the Body Scanner.
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.
Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice
Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers
Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures
In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
