Revised Antiterrorism Bill Moves Closer to Approval - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Washington|Revised Antiterrorism Bill Moves Closer to Approval
Revised Antiterrorism Bill Moves Closer to Approval
Senator Harry Reid, center, joined two fellow Democrats, Senators Charles E. Schumer and Frank R. Lautenberg, to discuss the antiterrorism bill.
WASHINGTON, July 25 — Congress is moving toward approval of antiterrorism legislation that would require a greater share of Homeland Security grants to be based on risk, instead of a political formula, and seeks to tighten security of cargo carried on ships and passenger planes.But Democrats, to ensure passage of the measure, agreed to compromises that diluted some provisions in the legislation, prompting concerns over the effectiveness of some of the promised security enhancements.The compromises were necessary because of a veto threat from President Bush and opposition by Republican members in Congress. The bill, expected to come up for final votes in the House and Senate in the next week, cleared the House in January and the Senate in March but has been stalled until recently.Republicans have claimed that some of the initiatives being pushed by Democrats, such as a requirement that all ship containers headed to the United States from foreign ports be checked for nuclear threats, were impractical and would disrupt global trade.Democrats, struggling to win final passage for at least a few pieces of legislation before the summer recess, agreed to the changes, which will allow them to claim a victory.
“To get a bill passed is an art of compromise,” Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, said in an interview Wednesday. “But I don’t think we weakened our systems of protection in the process.”The so-called 9/11 commission bill would make a major change in the way grants from the Department of Homeland Security are distributed to states. It would cut in half the guaranteed minimum grant, which this year was $3.8 million, that each state would receive, allowing Homeland Security officials to distribute more money in discretionary grants to states where the threat and consequences of a terror strike are deemed greatest.The change in the grant formula moves in the direction advocated by the Sept. 11 commission, whose recommendations were the inspiration for this bill. Still, the minimum amount of grant money set aside for small population states like Wyoming, West Virginia and Montana is 50 percent higher than what the House first proposed when the bill was introduced in January. In past years, officials from some more populous states that were considered likely terrorist targets, like New York, complained that small or rural states collected outsize grants.Democrats also agreed to drop a provision that would have required airport security screeners be given collective bargaining rights like most other federal workers, giving them more power to object to work hours or assignments. The measure had elicited a veto threat from President Bush.And Democrats agreed to a Republican request that broad legal coverage be offered to people who report suspicious activity. The measure was inspired by an incident last year in Minneapolis, where six Muslim men were removed from a flight after a passenger complaint, an action that provoked a lawsuit against the passenger.Some of the most significant compromises necessary to win passage involved cargo screening. For more than two years, Democrats have sought to mandate that all cargo carried by passenger airplanes be inspected for explosives and that ship cargo containers bound for the United States from foreign ports be scanned for nuclear or radiological weapons.The bill still requires that within three years all cargo carried by passenger jets be checked, but the legislation now says it must be “screened” instead of “inspected.”That could mean that as much as 60 percent of air cargo could be exempt from a mandatory physical inspection at airports, under a new program to be called Certified Shipper, said Homeland Security officials who participated in the negotiations.
Companies that participate in the Certified Shipper program would still have to follow security rules, including conducting their own package inspections and putting special tamperproof seals on containers. But packages handled by these companies, which will probably represent the bulk of the air cargo industry, would generally be exempt from mandated electronic, canine or other physical inspections at the airport.Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts and one of the leading advocates for air cargo inspections, said he was pleased with the outcome of the bill and did not consider it weaker than his original goal.“It is a significant increase in the level of security,” Mr. Markey said.But a program similar to Certified Shipper that is used by Customs and Border Patrol for ship cargo has frequently been criticized. Auditors have found that companies in this program are sometimes permitted to move their goods more quickly even though there is insufficient proof that they have a robust security system in place.Meanwhile, the provision to require screening for all ship cargo sets a five-year deadline for the system to be in place globally.But the measure gives the Department of Homeland Security the power to postpone the requirement in two-year increments if a port cannot meet the deadline for several reasons, including a screening system that is ineffective, has too many false alarms or slows the flow of cargo, as well as a port that simply does not have room to install the equipment.Mr. Thompson, the Democratic chairman, acknowledged that the power to waive the requirement weakened the mandate but said Democrats had no choice.After negotiators for both parties reached agreement Wednesday, Republican leaders in the House claimed part of the credit. “Republicans One-Up House Democrats, Claim Victory on Key 9/11 Protection Against Terrorist Activity,” they said in a news release, a nearly certain sign that after months of negotiating, the bill will probably pass with bipartisan support when it comes up for a final vote by the end of next week.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Revised Antiterrorism Bill Moves Closer to Approval.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
