Struggling Airlines Try to Keep People Flying, Despite Worries - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|Airlines Struggle Anew With Flier Frustrations
For the struggling United States airline industry, the new decade is starting out much like the old.Executives at carriers that survived the 2001 terrorist attacks, soaring fuel prices and a rough economy are now scrambling to find ways to minimize the impact of the Christmas Day bombing attempt on consumers’ travel plans in the new year.The chief executives of several major airlines said this week that they have been in constant contact with officials of the Transportation Security Administration, which oversees security at the nation’s airports, discussing the best ways to provide more safety on planes while keeping passengers’ comfort in mind.They acknowledge that the procedures have to be unpredictable to be effective. But they also say that the unpredictability could push travelers to avoid airports at all costs.They say consumers’ perception of the inconvenience
while traveling may even hurt the industry more than travelers’ worries about another bombing attempt.“I don’t think people book away because of fear,” said one executive, who agreed to speak candidly about the industry’s concerns only if he was not quoted by name. “I think they book away because of inconvenience. If it means three hours in line at an airport, they aren’t going to take their trips.”
the last few days, airline executives said in interviews that they were most concerned about the impact of increased security on travelers taking short trips — Boston to New York, New York to Washington,
Chicago to Detroit — given what they saw in the weeks after the September 2001 attacks.Even a slight decrease in passenger traffic could be difficult for US Airways and Delta Air Lines, which already have cut back on their East Coast shuttle flights, adding smaller planes to the medium-size jets that traditionally flew the routes.To entice more travelers back into the air, several carriers, including United and Southwest Airlines, have stepped up fare sales.The back and forth between agency officials and airline executives has taken place on conference calls and through the airlines’ trade group and may have resulted in the relaxation of some of the stiffest requirements that the T.S.A. put in place over the weekend.For instance, the airlines have been able to turn in-flight entertainment systems back on after they were ordered shut down during international flights because their maps show the locations of planes.The pilots can now decide whether passengers are allowed to move about in the last hour of a flight and if they can keep their pillows and blankets, instead of requiring them to stay seated with nothing in their laps.The agency extended the rest of the current rules through the holiday weekend, officials said Wednesday night.
Passengers waited Tuesday at Newark International Airport to
Any drop in travel could put a damper on — or even reverse — the fledgling recovery the industry was hoping for in 2010. More financial troubles for the industry, which has lost about $3 billion this year and cut almost 30,000 full- and part-time employees could lead to further cost cuts and fewer flights.The fragile airlines were hoping they might gain some profits in 2010 after a two-year downturn in which they were pummeled by record oil prices and a recession that resulted in a 20 percent decline in air traffic, both overseas and in the United States.
“Just when things start to stabilize, they get hit with this,” said Betsy Snyder, a veteran airline industry analyst with Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services.While airlines say it is too early to see an effect on bookings this week because so many travelers are on vacation and corporate offices are closed for the holidays, they will begin to see next week whether there is an impact on travel plans.To be sure, the executives say they — and their passengers — are resilient and point to the rebound in travel that eventually occurred once the air system stabilized after the 2001 attacks.This week, passengers encountered all manner of security at airports in the United States and abroad, from routine and speedy to lengthy and tight. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said that this lack of consistency was intentional and that travelers should learn to expect the unexpected at the airport.But some passengers who endured the most stringent requirements this weekend questioned whether they were really effective.“It gives the impression of our government at work, but it’s just to give people some sense of calm,” said Kenneth Wright, of Phoenix, a medical researcher who flew from Nagoya, Japan, to Detroit on Sunday. He underwent several searches, including a full body pat-down, before he boarded his plane, while inspectors thoroughly searched his carry-on bag.Because they bear the brunt of travelers’ frustration and anger, airline executives said they could use more help from the government explaining that there is a rationale behind the inconsistencies. Beyond that, their biggest need is to have the situation out of the spotlight as soon as possible, said Henry H. Harteveldt, a senior travel analyst with Forrester Research.“If it’s more than a week, we could see even more declines in trans-Atlantic and trans-Pacific travel,” he said.
He expects the airlines to try to assuage reluctant passengers with offers of extra frequent flier miles, a tactic they have used regularly when disruptions occur in air travel, and to cut prices to destinations like London, especially in the slow winter travel period.But they may not be able to offer steep fare discounts, at least not for very long, because of their fragile financial situation.“It’s not looking good, for an industry that hasn’t been looking good for eight years,” Mr. Harteveldt said.
A version of this article appears in print on December 31, 2009, on page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Airlines Struggle Anew With Flier Frustrations.
Jet Plot Demonstrates Growing Ability of Qaeda Affiliates
Jet Plot Demonstrates Growing Ability of Qaeda Affiliates
Full-Body Scans to Be Used for Flights From Amsterdam to U.S.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
