A Call for T.S.A. to Rethink Its Rules in 2012 - On the Road - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|Carry On a Christmas Pie, Not a Merry Snow Globe
MY daughter, who was always a resourceful child, showed up for the Thanksgiving visit with her husband, our three small grandchildren and a homemade apple pie.Now, I expected that the family would sail through security and make the eight-hour journey just fine. But getting the pie through was a surprise.“I thought they confiscated pies at security,” I told my daughter.“Not any more,” she said. “Now the screener just jokes about having to eat a slice to make sure it’s safe.”As December approaches, business travel starts to wind down for the holidays while leisure travel rises. Since I had no idea that you could bring a pie onto a plane (though I have no plan to do so because it’s all I can do to manage my laptop and carry-on), I thought it might be a good time to review some other procedures for getting through Checkpoint Charlie — I mean airport security.So pies are all right, though they may be “subject to additional screening,” according to the Transportation Security Administration’s online guidelines. On the other hand, jellies and jams and creams are limited in volume under the so-called 3-1-1 rule, which restricts carry-on liquids, gels and creams. That’s true even though most pies — like pumpkin, custard, lemon meringue — contain what appear to be creams or jellies.
Incidentally, many travelers are confused by the 3-1-1 rule. So, it seems, is the T.S.A. Depending on which section of the T.S.A. Web site you consult, the guidelines state that liquids and gels must be carried in individual 3-ounce containers — or, wait, is that 3.4-ounce containers? — all of which must be packed within one quart-size zip-top bag, one bag per passenger.The correct answer, incidentally, is 3.4 ounces. After introducing the 3-1-1 program in 2006, the T.S.A. realized that most of the rest of the world uses the metric system for measurement. In a nod to international comity, the rule was changed to 3.4 ounces (that is, roughly 100 milliliters) of liquids and gels, though the quart-size bag stayed. Also, the name of the 3-1-1 rule has remained the same, probably because “3.4-1-1 rule” does not come tripping off the tongue.
There are other regulations about liquids and gels that strike me as odd, strictly from the security perspective. For example, “persons with disabilities,” the T.S.A. guidelines say, may carry on liquids and gels in quantities in excess of 3.4 ounces. These include prescription and over-the-counter medicines, as well as eye drops and other “items used to augment the body for medical or cosmetic reasons, such as mastectomy products, prosthetic breasts, bras or shells containing gels, saline solution, or other liquids.”On the other hand, “gel-shoe inserts are not permitted,” the T.S.A. guidelines say. But powdered mashed potatoes are, though Bob Burns, writing on the T.S.A. blog, adds, “Powdered mashed potatoes are a crime against humanity.”The T.S.A. also notes that wrapped presents may be unwrapped for further inspection.It is easy to roll your eyes at inconsistencies in airport security rules. Why, for example, are military personnel in uniform exempt from the requirement to remove their footwear at security? Have there been no terrorist incidents involving military personnel? And at a time when security officials worry most about a terrorist threat posed by nonmetallic explosives on airplanes, who decides what volume of liquids or gels is acceptable for “medical or cosmetic” reasons, and for whom?Why are certain ranking members of Congress, those escorted by security details, allowed to bypass the T.S.A. checkpoints at airports? And what’s the rationale for allowing those who are fortunate enough to fly on private and executive jets to avoid T.S.A. checkpoints altogether? That’s right, business jet passengers just walk right up to the airplane.All of these topics need to be explored in the coming year, especially as the T.S.A. works to carry out new procedures based on what its director, John S. Pistole, calls “intelligence-driven, risk-based” and multilayered approaches to security, including the expansion of the so-called known-traveler program.Meanwhile, as the holidays approach, let’s not forget about those Christmas snow globes. Snow globes, which are filled with who-knows-what kinds of liquids, remain strictly prohibited. You can bring that apple pie through, but that merry snow globe with Frosty the Snowman inside will be confiscated.
“Snow globes are prohibited because the liquid is sealed inside the globe, and we have no way of screening the liquid without destroying the globe,” the T.S.A. says.A passenger at the Reno, Nev., airport recently got so angry about having his snow globe taken away at security that he shouted, “I am going to blow up the plane!” according to the T.S.A. blog, which added, “Shouting that you’re going to blow up a plane is never a good thing.”
A version of this article appears in print on November 29, 2011, on page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Carry On a Christmas Pie, Not a Merry Snow Globe.
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.
Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice
Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers
Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures
In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
