Envisioning an Expensive Future in the Brave New World of Fortress New York - NYTimes.com
campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Bar1
AFTER THE ATTACKS: SECURITY; Envisioning an Expensive Future in the Brave New World of Fortress New York
Late Friday afternoon, pausing amid the swirl of commuters in the main lobby of Grand Central Terminal, a young man leaned into his girlfriend and whispered a thought that in an earlier America would have sounded alarmist and paranoid: ''What's to stop a suicide bomber from taking out this whole place?''
After the suffering of this last week, his words only begin to hint at the broader question many New Yorkers are now confronting with an almost primal urgency: What will it take to make this city's public spaces safe from attack?
In interviews after last Tuesday, nine security and terrorism experts tried to answer this question, envisioning a New York City of maximum security where money was no object in the pursuit of safety.
They described a city transformed, a city in which antiaircraft missiles might protect the Statue of Liberty, where Times Square would be converted into a pedestrian mall to thwart truck bombs, where the stained glass in St. Patrick's Cathedral would be coated with a shatter-resistant film, where bomb-sniffing dogs would become an accepted, everyday part of the marble landscape in Grand Central.
Security options once dismissed as unpalatable, impractical or too expensive would be embraced, they said. There would be long lines, intrusive and random searches, new identification systems and a strange new vocabulary of terms like biometrics, bollards, bomb mitigation containers and smart doors.
''You would have to develop a fortress mind-set,'' said Joseph R. Rosetti, formerly vice chairman of Kroll Associates and now senior vice president of IPSA International, a leading security company. ''You harden the most likely targets and you accept that you're going to be checked and poked and prodded.''
You would accept, he said, that your efforts might not stop a terrorist who was willing to die to make a point or that your efforts might simply push the terrorist toward a slightly less conspicuous site nearby.
Yet officials at several New York City landmarks said that at least some elements of this new world are sure to be adopted.
''We're going to look at everything,'' said Tom Kelly, spokesman for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which oversees security at Grand Central Terminal.
''A week ago,'' he said, ''certain things would have been unheard of as safety options. But now you reassess, you reconsider.''
In one telling sign of the times, spokesmen for the American Civil Liberties Union -- normally quick to take issue with calls for increased profiling, random searches and surveillance cameras -- declined to comment.
Oddly enough, the strongest misgivings were expressed by the same security consultants who, with clinical expertise, provided a glimpse of what maximum protection might look like in New York City, post Sept. 11. These experts were asked to focus on four New York landmarks: Times Square, St. Patrick's Cathedral, Grand Central Terminal and the Statue of Liberty. As was once the case with the World Trade Center, each is central to the city's cultural and commercial life, and each has been on experts' lists of likely terrorist targets in the United States.
But Howard Safir, the former New York City police commissioner who is now consultant to the chairman of ChoicePoint, a security information company, warned of embracing a ''bunker, bomb-camp mind-set.'' While acknowledging, for example, that turning Times Square into a pedestrian mall might be the most effective countermeasure to car bombs, he said that such a step would only signal defeat. ''That's basically caving to terrorism,'' he said.
He did, on the other hand, suggest the installation of 100 or so surveillance cameras in Times Square. The cameras, he said, should be integrated with biometric facial imaging software, allowing the images of all pedestrians to be compared with photographs of known terrorists.
Biometric surveillance systems were a favorite of each of the security experts interviewed, but they were only a small part of what Times Square would become. As things stand now, they said, Times Square is vulnerable to a massive truck bomb, a favorite of terrorists that could well cause hundreds of deaths, particularly if it were detonated as crowds lined up for Broadway shows.
While some security consultants argued that the only sure defense is closing Times Square to all cars and trucks, there were less extreme suggestions. Some said that truck traffic should be restricted to early-morning hours through designated routes, where they would be subjected to inspections at checkpoints.
And there would be more: new blast-resistant windows in all stores; specially reinforced trash cans that absorb the blasts of package bombs; public service announcements urging people to report all unattended packages; frequent sweeps with bomb-detection dogs and with laboratory equipment that detects the chemical traces of explosives; still more surveillance cameras on rooftops of surrounding buildings to look for anyone intent on attacking with mortars or fragmentation grenades.
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Inv1
