An Eye on Streamlining Security - On the Road - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Business Day|A Partnership Aims at Streamlining Security
CLEAR, the company that provided expedited airport security clearance to travelers who agreed to background checks, went out of business with heavy debts in 2009 — dashing expectations that private enterprise would soon become a major partner with the government at airport security checkpoints.But under the new owners who bought Clear out of bankruptcy in 2010, the service is starting to expand aggressively again. The new Clear is proposing a pilot program with the Transportation Security Administration that would rejuvenate the idea of partnerships between private enterprise and the government in air travel security.Clear now operates at two terminal locations each at the Orlando, Fla., and Denver airports. By early May, according to Caryn Seidman-Becker, the company’s chief executive, Clear lanes will be open at two additional airports, San Francisco and Dallas-Fort Worth. It has a list of 25 major airports where it hopes to establish a network of Clear lanes.Airports have financial and logistical enticements to work with Clear. The company shares revenue from its members’ fees with airports. A special Clear lane arguably eases overall congestion at security checkpoints while raising money and providing a service for which time-pressed business travelers, who cringe at long security lines, are willing to pay $179 a year.“We paid Orlando in the first year close to a million dollars, and delivered a much better experience to their customers,” said Ms. Seidman-Becker, a prominent hedge fund manager and a co-founder of Alclear Holdings. Alclear bought the old Clear’s assets, including its signature kiosks and special technology, for about $5.7 million in bankruptcy court.
Clear’s verified-identification process uses sophisticated iris and fingerprint biometrics to prove that the holder is actually the person identified on the card. Members also provide personal background information as part of the so-called trusted-traveler concept.Security experts consider a biometrically encoded card to be a virtually foolproof means of identification. In addition to the card, the agency would also have adequate background information on you to assess your potential threat. Clear’s owners and supporters said they believed that this should qualify you to become eligible for the T.S.A.’s own new expedited security program, PreCheck.
That remains to be seen. As I reminded Ms. Seidman-Becker, the T.S.A. set up a roadblock on the original version of Clear and it is still in place. That is, Clear members basically get a head-of-line pass — up to the T.S.A.’s checkpoints. This saves time in airports, like Orlando’s, with unpredictable surges of leisure traveler crowds. But once they pass through the Clear lane, their special status disappears. They go through the same security procedures at checkpoints as any other traveler.Clear and its supporters see a way around that roadblock with the T.S.A. PreCheck pilot program, which provides expedited security to some passengers selected from among the most frequent fliers, whose profiles are best known to airlines. The agency has said it is evaluating ways to expand that program to enroll more low-risk travelers.Clear, along with the American Association of Airport Executives and the U.S. Travel Association, has sent a joint proposal to the T.S.A. for a test program to “increase the pool of travelers” by making Clear’s existing members eligible for screening under programs like PreCheck, “provided those members meet other eligibility criteria as established by T.S.A.”With nearly 200,000 members, including those who were re-enrolled from the bankrupt company’s base, “Clear will scale quickly, and on a national level, at no cost to the U.S. government,” according to a draft of the proposal.In a recent interview, John S. Pistole, the agency’s administrator, said: “We have received an unsolicited proposal that is being reviewed right now. I’m open to that, if there is a way of a company doing something that is no-fee to the taxpayers, and provides some level of confidence that the persons signing up are not likely to be terrorists.”Ms. Seidman-Becker said that Clear could prove itself a viable partner, especially as new technology is developed to enhance the T.S.A. systems without adding costs to taxpayers.
“When Administrator Pistole comes in and shows a real forward-looking attitude like that, we applaud it,” she said. “ I believe you have to put the investment and the infrastructure ahead of the idea, and we had to rebuild the integrity and the brand integrity” of Clear. The company’s former iteration went out of business abruptly, with no refunds to existing members.“Obviously, we are working closely with them,” she said of the T.S.A. “We love that they’re trying new things. We’re a company based on innovation, so we feel very aligned.”
A version of this article appears in print on March 13, 2012, on page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: A Partnership Aims At Streamlining Security.
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.
Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice
Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers
Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures
In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
