Another Gallery Is Raided ­in Antiquities Case - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Art & Design|Another Gallery Is Raided ­in Antiquities Case
A second-century Indian sandstone relief, valued at $100,000, that was seized this week.
In their fifth raid in a week focusing on South Asian antiquities they say were looted, investigators have seized three items from a leader in the field, the Nancy Wiener Gallery of Manhattan.The seized items were valued at nearly $1 million, according to agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations and officials of the Manhattan district attorney’s office, who are jointly conducting an investigation into the trafficking of illicit artifacts.The raids, which federal officials said have netted some $4 million in antiquities, have been staged during Asia Week New York, an annual celebration of Asian art that is typically a time for high sales in that market.The items from the Wiener gallery, which were seized on Thursday, included a 10th-century bronze Buddha from Thailand or Cambodia valued at $850,000. Also seized were a red sandstone relief of a couple from India’s second-century Kushan period, valued at $100,000, and an eighth-century Indian or Pakistani limestone carving of the Hindu deities Shiva and Parvati, valued at $25,000 to $35,000.A lawyer for Ms. Wiener declined to comment.Last year, Ms. Wiener was involved in a dispute with the National Gallery of Australia over a rare Kushan Buddha that the museum purchased from her gallery for $1.08 million. The museum returned the statue to India after it said it determined that documents claiming it was legally exported from India were fraudulent and that the item had been looted. Ms. Wiener ended up refunding the purchase price.Angel M. Melendez, special agent in charge of Homeland Security Investigations in New York, said that the week of raids had been successful. “We want to protect innocent buyers who might purchase items with false documentations,” he said. “This is a transnational crime but also a boutique crime, and that makes for very complex investigations.” Continue reading the main story
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
