Speak Uighur? Have Good Vision? China’s Security Services Want You - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Asia Pacific|Speak Uighur? Have Good Vision? China’s Security Services Want You
Speak Uighur? Have Good Vision? China’s Security Services Want You
A view of Shanghai in January. The Shanghai State Security Bureau is recruiting university graduates with skills in computers and ethnic minority languages.
Johannes Eisele/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
BEIJING — As Chinese college students return to campus after the Lunar New Year vacation, some may be fretting about their chances of finding a good job in a slowing economy. But those who speak Japanese or Uighur, have a “well-proportioned physique” and are not too shortsighted may be in luck: They could become state security agents.That is, provided the men are at least 5 feet 6 inches tall and the women 5 feet 2½ inches tall, and they are not colorblind, according to an advertisement on the career website of the East China Normal University seeking recruits to the Shanghai State Security Bureau.Titled the “Shanghai State Security Bureau Preliminary Selection Announcement for 2016 Graduates,” the ad has since been taken down, but a cached version still exists. Contacted by telephone, a person working at the career center who gave her name as Ms. He confirmed that the ad was genuine but expressed surprise that it had circulated publicly since such ads are generally only for internal use.In the United States, the C.I.A. has long recruited openly. But such processes in China are mostly conducted in secret — even if it is a badly kept one, as suggested by an account on Pincai.com, a jobs site, by someone who attended a recruitment meeting in Beijing for the Ministry of State Security, the country’s intelligence agency that oversees the regional bureaus.
An advertisement for job openings with the Shanghai State Security Bureau.
In the post, a person named Wang Yuele, which can also be transliterated as Wang Yueyue, described the event at an unnamed university in October 2007. The starting monthly salary while on the yearlong probation was 4,000 renminbi, about $600, with a minimum 10-year contract. Recruiters were mostly looking for graduate students with skills in “information security,” the person said, adding that similar recruitment events took place at Zhejiang University in Hangzhou; China University of Political Science and Law in Beijing; and the University of Electronic Science and Technology of China in Chengdu.
“These jobs were in Beijing but with a lot of travel,” this person said. “It was tiring, female students basically weren’t wanted and mostly the work wasn’t dangerous.”As the Shanghai ad and the Pincai account make clear, state security recruiters regularly visit elite Chinese universities trying to identify promising students.That was still the case, Ms. He said. Though the deadline for this ad had passed, there probably would be another recruitment drive at the university in June looking at 2017 job seekers, she said.“Each year in the summer they get in touch with us,” Ms. He said.Requirements change from year to year. “It depends on what they want,” she said. Among the shifting criteria could be a person’s “background,” she said, without elaborating.
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning.
According to the advertisement, in high demand are recruits with computer skills and fluency in languages spoken by China’s ethnic minorities. This could reflect an interest in the online monitoring of citizens and in the observing of China’s ethnic minorities, particularly the Uighurs in the far western region of Xinjiang, where resentment of Chinese rule has sometimes erupted in violence.The foreign languages that recruiters cited are English, French, German, Japanese, Russian “or other minor language specialties.”Students who belong to the Uighur, Tibetan, Kazakh or Mongolian ethnic groups or who can speak those languages, or those who know Chinese dialects such as Fujianese, Hakka, Cantonese or Wu should apply, the ad said. Those are dialects spoken by people in Shanghai or in the nearby southeastern seaboard or in the south of the country.Also sought were people with “computer software, information security, communication technology and related computer specialties,” the ad said. As were “graduates in international relations, international politics, Chinese, history, media, philosophy, teaching of Chinese as a foreign language and law.”
“A lot, really a lot, of students apply,” Ms. He said. As for the recruiters, she said, “Their requirements are very high.”
It is not clear how many people are employed by China’s security services, but the number may run in the hundreds of thousands, with the Shanghai ad just one recruitment effort at one university in one city. President Xi Jinping, who took power in late 2012, has made upgrading national security and crushing dissent a cornerstone of his rule.
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day with the Today’s Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.
Xiao Gang, China’s Top Securities Regulator, Ousted Over Market Tumult
China’s New Wedding Vows: To Have, Hold and Not Violate National Interests
China Injects a Heavy Dose of Ideology Into New Year’s Eve Gala
Insight, analysis and conversation about Chinese culture, media and politics.
China Says It Found Ring Said to Sell Improperly Stored Vaccines
Q. and A.: The Artist Zhang Hongtu on Appropriating Mao’s Image
On Social Media in China, Size 0 Doesn’t Make the Cut
With ‘Smog Jog’ Through Beijing, Zuckerberg Stirs Debate on Air Pollution
China Resumes Diplomatic Relations With Gambia, Shutting Out Taiwan
Xiao Gang, China’s Top Securities Regulator, Ousted Over Market Tumult
China’s New Wedding Vows: To Have, Hold and Not Violate National Interests
China Injects a Heavy Dose of Ideology Into New Year’s Eve Gala
A Chinese Almanac That Takes a Wary View of the New Year
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
