Classified 2002 Letter on N.S.A. Eavesdropping Is Made Public - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Politics|Classified 2002 Letter on N.S.A. Eavesdropping Is Made Public
Classified 2002 Letter on N.S.A. Eavesdropping Is Made Public
WASHINGTON — The Obama administration on Monday made public a previously classified letter from 2002 about the Bush administration’s secret program that allowed the National Security Agency to eavesdrop on Americans’ international communications without court orders.The release of the 22-page letter, written by John Yoo, then a top lawyer in the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, adds to the historical record of one of the most controversial pieces of the Bush administration’s response to the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001: The surveillance and bulk data collection program known by the code name Stellarwind.The letter explained to Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, who at that time was the new chief judge of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, why the Justice Department considered the program lawful even though, as Mr. Yoo acknowledged, it clashed with wiretapping laws laid out in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.The letter appeared to track a memorandum Mr. Yoo had written in Nov. 2, 2001, soon after President George W. Bush directed the N.S.A. to begin the program. A previously released inspector general report about the program included a partially redacted summary of that memo.Among other things, Mr. Yoo claimed in the letter that the president’s constitutional authority as commander-in-chief overruled statutory prohibitions and that under the circumstances the program complied with the Fourth Amendment, which bars unreasonable searches and usually requires warrants.
In the letter, Mr. Yoo wrote that, “We face a situation here where the government’s interest on one side — that of protecting the Nation from direct attack – is the highest known to the Constitution. On the other side of the scale, the intrusion into individual privacy interests is greatly reduced due to the international nature of the communications.”In 2004, after Mr. Yoo had returned to teaching, a new leader of the Office of Legal Counsel, Jack Goldsmith, rejected parts of Mr. Yoo’s legal analysis, leading to a now-famous confrontation in March of that year in the hospital room of then-Attorney General John Ashcroft and a threat by top Justice Department officials to resign.To avert that threat, Mr. Bush then accepted some new limits on the program, which The New York Times partially disclosed 21 months later. The legal basis for the program also evolved. The spy court secretly blessed its bulk data collection components in 2004 and 2006, and Congress authorized warrantless wiretapping in a 2008 law, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Amendments Act.
A version of this article appears in print on March 1, 2016, on page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: National Briefing | Washington; 2002 Letter on Eavesdropping Is Made Public.
Obama Administration Set to Expand Sharing of Data That N.S.A. Intercepts
N.S.A. Gets Less Web Data Than Believed, Report Suggests
Obama Administration Set to Expand Sharing of Data That N.S.A. Intercepts
N.S.A. Gets Less Web Data Than Believed, Report Suggests
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
