campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Bar1
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL; MCFARLANE CARVING HIS NICHE
After almost six months on the job as national security adviser, Robert C. McFarlane has made his staff into a more powerful bureaucratic instrument on day-to-day affairs, but he remains far less powerful personally on major policy issues than his predecessor, William P. Clark, according to White House and other Administration officials.
''The most McFarlane can do on the big questions like Soviet affairs, Central America and the Middle East,'' one White House official said, ''is set up temporary fences between the elephants to keep them, for a few days, from trampling all over each other.''
The ''elephants'' are Secretary of State George P. Shultz and Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger. Their personal relations continue to be described as strained, and their policy views bounce off each other with upsetting regularity.
The source of Mr. McFarlane's power is knowledge of substance and an understanding of how the bureaucracy works, not a personal relationship with the President Reagan. The personal connection is what Mr. Clark, Mr. Weinberger, Mr. Shultz and senior White House aides have that Mr. McFarlane does not.
By all accounts, Mr. McFarlane knows more about most issues than his competitors, but most discussions in front of the President take place on a high plane of generality for no more than an hour or so, and detailed knowledge does not regularly prevail over personal ties.
Mr. McFarlane is known to feel that his ability to choose between Mr. Shultz and Mr. Weinberger or frame a consistent alternative is sharply circumscribed by Mr. Reagan's continuing insistence on Cabinet-style Government.
''The President wants differences between his two principal Cabinet officers to be elevated to the Oval Office,'' a senior Administration official said. ''But once elevated, the President will deal with them only in the broadest macro terms, and that still leaves basic differences between Shultz and Weinberger unresolved and prevents the adoption of consistent policies.''
Thus, Mr. Shultz has succeeded in getting Mr. Reagan to tone down his anti-Soviet rhetoric and press for improved relations, but Mr. Weinberger has succeeded in preventing agreement on compromises with Moscow.
For example, Mr. Shultz proposed and gained Presidential approval in late January on a plan for gradually shifting most of the marines from Lebanon, but when the situation in Beirut began deteriorating rapidly in February, Mr. Weinberger was able to convince Mr. Reagan to take them all out in a few weeks' time.
Mr. McFarlane is said to believe that Mr. Reagan wants him to be more assertive. Accordingly, in the last few months he has appeared on several television talk shows. And in the garb of ''a senior Administration official,'' he has made himself more available to journalists privately and has frequently briefed the press on the meaning and strategic context of major policy decisions.
He has his detractors in the Administration who find his thinking ''mechanical'' and much influenced by his career in the Marines and as a military staff aide. Some critics say his present responsibilities exceed his powers of conceptualizaton.
But without exception, officials say, he has substantially upgraded the professional quality of formulating and coordinating policy on routine matters such as deciding on aid levels and preparing for the President's trip to China.
Officials maintain that ''Bud,'' as he is known, has made things steadier and more consistent than under Mr. Clark, who is now Secretary of the Interior.
With a few exceptions, the National Security Council staff is still widely regarded as weak, but now much better run than before. Rear Adm. John Poindexter and Robert M. Kimmit, a retired Army major, are Nos. 2 and 3 on the staff. Their reputations are as men who know how to make the system work rather than as people with particular points of view. Donald Fortier, head of politico-military affairs, rounds out the hierarchy.
On most matters, they and their staffs write the all-important National Security Decision Directives for Mr. Reagan's signature. Given that most battles have now been fought many times after three years in office, these decision memorandums are prepared even without formal National Security Council meetings.
Even though most of these are not even shown to the various departments before Presidential signature, nonetheless, the bureaucracy accepts that Mr. McFarlane speaks for Mr. Reagan.
According to a senior Administration official, Mr. Reagan alters only about 10 percent of these memorandums before signing them. ''That,'' a White House aide said, ''is power.''
On the big issues, Mr. McFarlane is said to feel bound by Mr. Reagan's insistence on collegiality and consensus. In practice, this means that ''everybody gets something,'' one high official said. That, in turn, generally produces compromises that look more like a montage than a mosaic.
Such was the case, officials recalled, in the months-long preparation of a study to send to Congress on possible Soviet violations of arms control treaties. The State Department wanted only cautious, lawerly judgments made and no doors closed. The civilian Pentagon hierarchy wanted accusations and condemnations. According to several accounts, Mr. Reagan wanted to play down possible violations and was even resisting the idea of making any charges of violations.
Through this labyrinth, Mr. McFarlane carved out an intricate set of compromises, ranging from serious doubts of Soviet compliance on some matters to questions about violations on others, and the report was submitted to Congress. As several officials pointed out, that was enough to overcome a bureaucratic logjam, but not enough to lay out a strategy on how to deal with Moscow over possible violations.
More often than not, Mr. McFarlane has sided with Mr. Shultz, particularly on tougher options than recommended by Mr. Weinberger on Lebanon and Central America. But as most in the Administration see it, Mr. Shultz would probably have carried Mr. Reagan on these alone.
Mr. McFarlane has been trying for two years, since he served as deputy to Mr. Clark, to gain agreement on a set of priorities for Mr. Reagan, such as reorienting policy more toward Asia than Europe, starting a visible dialogue with Moscow and making a hard push on Arab-Israeli negotiations, but without any luck.
''In an election year,'' a senior Administration official said, ''it is now a bad time to try to set that agenda.''
At this point, Mr. McFarlane is said to be focusing on more modest goals, including some action on Soviet- American relations before the year runs out, preventing further erosion Washington's position in Central America and avoiding a war in the Middle East. And if Mr. Reagan is re- elected, Mr. McFarlane seems to be ready to start pushing his priorities all over again.
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Inv1
