U.S. Weighs Tighter Sanctions on North Korea if China Fails to Act - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Asia Pacific|U.S. Weighs Tighter Sanctions on North Korea if China Fails to Act
U.S. Weighs Tighter Sanctions on North Korea if China Fails to Act
A Chinese paramilitary police officer standing guard outside the North Korean Embassy in Beijing.
SEOUL, South Korea — The United States and its allies will bolster sanctions and go on the defensive against North Korea in ways that China may not like if Beijing fails to lend greater support to efforts to curb the North’s nuclear ambitions, a top American diplomat said here on Wednesday.The diplomat, Deputy Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken, made the warning a day before he planned to meet with Chinese officials in Beijing to pressure them to use their economic leverage over North Korea to force it to end its nuclear weapons program.“I think what we will be talking to China about is that we will, both in terms of sanctions and in terms of our defense postures, have to take additional steps in order to use the leverage we have in order to defend ourselves and our allies if North Korea doesn’t change its behavior,” Mr. Blinken said in an interview.Some of those steps “won’t be directed at China, but China probably won’t like them,” he said.Mr. Blinken refused to go into detail. But he said that “everything is on the table,” including so-called secondary sanctions, of the type the United States most recently used against Iran, which would target third-party countries doing business with North Korea.
Last week, President Park Geun-hye of South Korea said her country would consider agreeing to the United States’ deployment of its Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or Thaad, missile system in South Korea to cope better with the North’s growing nuclear and missile threats.China has vehemently opposed a Thaad deployment in South Korea, saying it would constitute a threat to its security. Secondary sanctions against North Korea, if put in place, would also affect China the most, because most of the North’s external trade is with China or goes through the country.“I think China has an incentive to use its own leverage to achieve the result and thus make it less necessary for us and our partners to take steps that China may not like,” Mr. Blinken said.
Graphic: Why Experts Doubt That North Korea Tested a Hydrogen Bomb
For years, the United States has called on China to use its economic leverage to force North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons. But Beijing has been reluctant to put as much pressure on the North as Washington has wanted, because of fears that doing so would make the North more aggressive or even push its government to collapse. China considers neither situation to be in its strategic interest, analysts say.After the North conducted a nuclear test on Jan. 6, the United States and its allies, including South Korea and Japan, cited the test as proof that China had not done enough to curb the government it has supported for six decades. They urged China to agree that the United Nations Security Council should adopt a resolution authorizing “strong and comprehensive” sanctions against the North.Mr. Blinken also said on Wednesday that the United States was working both unilaterally and with its allies to add other sanctions to any adopted by the Security Council.China, while condemning the North Korean nuclear test, has suggested that it is the Americans, not the Chinese, who are largely to blame for the North’s pursuit of nuclear weapons. It has emphasized the need to start dialogue with the North, saying that the United States and other countries need to address “both the symptoms and root causes” of the North Korean nuclear issue.Since the latest North Korean test, some analysts and newspaper editorials in South Korea have accused the United States of “outsourcing” the North Korean issue to China and not doing enough itself.
But Mr. Blinken defended his government’s approach.“We believe that China has a special role to play,” he said during a news conference earlier Wednesday, after meeting with senior South Korean officials to coordinate Washington’s and Seoul’s responses to the North’s nuclear test in January, its fourth since 2006.Hong Lei, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, said on Monday that North Korea, the United States and others needed to “stay on the path of resolving the issue through dialogues and consultations, meet each other halfway, properly address each other’s concerns, and strive for enduring peace and stability of the region with concerted efforts.”In its first statement since the nuclear test, North Korea’s Foreign Ministry reiterated on Friday that it would settle American concerns about its nuclear weapons only if Washington first signed a peace treaty to end its “hostile policy” toward the North, which it described as “the root cause of all problems.”The 1950-53 Korean War was halted in a cease-fire, leaving the peninsula technically still at war.On Wednesday, Mr. Blinken said the North Korean demand was “a total nonstarter” that violated the 2005 agreement in which North Korea, China, the United States, Japan, Russia and South Korea agreed to a peace treaty on the Korean Peninsula, but only in return for the North’s verifiable denuclearization.“Now, North Korea says it wants a peace treaty, and it won’t even talk about the nuclear program. It’s impossible,” he said, adding that Washington would start dialogue only if the North showed that it was prepared for “credible and authentic talks about denuclearization.”
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day with the Today’s Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.
A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2016, on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: World Briefing | Asia; North Korea: U.S. Presses China to Curb Ally’s Nuclear Program.
After Nuclear Test, South Korea Urges China to Rein In North
With Nuclear Test, North Korea’s Leader Asserts Role of Instigator
U.S. Prods China on North Korea, Saying Soft Approach Has Failed
North Korea’s Hydrogen Bomb Claim Strains Ties With China
After Nuclear Test, South Korea Urges China to Rein In North
With Nuclear Test, North Korea’s Leader Asserts Role of Instigator
U.S. Prods China on North Korea, Saying Soft Approach Has Failed
North Korea’s Hydrogen Bomb Claim Strains Ties With China
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
