SET GOALS, LOOK AT THE RESOURCES AND ACT - NYTimes.com
campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Bar1
PLANNING, THE KEY TO SECURITY; SET GOALS, LOOK AT THE RESOURCES AND ACT
THERE is an old saw in the financial planning business that few people plan to fail, but most people fail to plan. Yet, at no time in the past has such planning been so necessary. The shifting financial sands - spurred by deregulation, the growth of financial services supermarkets and the development of new legal devices - have destroyed many of the rules that formerly governed personal money management. As a result, saving, investing, borrowing and spending wisely today require continual attention and analysis.
What is financial planning? According to Gaylon E. Greer, professor of finance at DePaul University, Chicago, ''Systematic personal financial planning involves considering one's financial situation from a lifetime perspective. First comes the fundamental need for security of oneself and for loved ones. There may follow plans for assuring progress in areas of health, education and welfare.''
In some cases, this type of plan might be presented as a sophisticated 50-page document - complete with detailed records, tax analyses, possible sources of additional funds and precise objectives - listing a family's complete financial picture and outlining a course well into the future, whether the planner lives or dies. In other instances, it may be no more than a simple listing, on a yellow pad, of assets and liabilities, income and outgo, and general projections for the next year. But whatever form is used, its essence should be an organized statement explicating the current finances of the individual or family and highlighting important goals.
Mr. Greer observed that financial planning is not investment analysis. ''It involves first setting some goals and looking at your resources,'' he said. ''Given your resource base and timing, you then have to think about what you must do to achieve those goals. The rest is the trimming.''
Personal financial planning can be a solo endeavor by a person seeking to understand better his or her propensity for risk and to present short-term, medium-term and long-term alternatives. It can also be an effort undertaken jointly with a professional in the field, in an attempt to preserve present assets, increase wealth and build security. The traditional advisers to the public, such as lawyers, accountants, bankers, stockbrokers and life insurance agents, have been joined in recent years by an emerging group of consultants called financial planners, who specialize in this area.
But no matter how the planning is done, setting goals and implementing the program are essential aspects of personal finance. And, to be of real value, these calculations must take into account the probable changes in the rate of inflation. Thus those who anticipate, say, long-term earnings of 4 percent on bonds and 5 percent on stocks would recognize that the anticipated yields may be undermined by the reduced purchasing power of the dollar. The ramifications of such a program could well affect the way that Americans, regardless of age, occupation or income, seek financial protection and minimization of taxes for themselves and their families.
''Most people spend so much time making money that they never really look at what it takes to get where they want to go,'' said Porter Morgan, first vice president of Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc, the securities firm. ''But goals are going to change throughout someone's life, and you ought to be re- evaluating these goals constantly. In retirement planning, you have to ask yourself, 'What am I going to need 20 years from now, with inflation rising at least 5 or 6 percent annually?' ''
''Financial planning really is a process,'' added Herbert Chasman, dean of graduate studies at American College, Bryn Mawr, Pa., and co-chairman of the national conference on financial planning that starts tomorrow in Washington. ''It's not a one-time thing. You have to be willing to devote a certain amount of time to the process and do it regularly.''
What does financial planning encompass? It often depends on each individual's personal objectives, but certain elements in the process are relevant to most people.
''There are six basic financial areas that people ought to look at,'' said P. Cemp Fain Jr., president of the Asset Planning Corporation of Knoxville, Tenn., and also president of the Institute of Certified Financial Planners.
''They are,'' he said,''financial independence at retirement, educational needs for children, adequate contingency reserves and adequate medical, disability and life insurance protection. Once you decide on these things, you need to be able to hang dollar signs on them and then correct them for inflation and taxes.''
Bill E. Carter, head of Financial Planning Services in Dallas and president of the International Association for Financial Planning, noted that ''the most important thing is trying to crystallize exactly what the financial goals are.''
''Most people say, 'I want to be rich and die happy,' '' he added. ''But as far as being able to say how much is necessary to accumulate enough for retirement and pay for the kids' education, they just don't know.''
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Inv1
