THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: SECURITY; MARINES TRANSFER FALLUJA POSITIONS TO AN IRAQI FORCE - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
World|THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: SECURITY; MARINES TRANSFER FALLUJA POSITIONS TO AN IRAQI FORCE
THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: SECURITY; MARINES TRANSFER FALLUJA POSITIONS TO AN IRAQI FORCE
Marines withdrew Friday from most of the positions they had taken during the three-week siege of this city, as the American military began handing over control of security here to an Iraqi general under Saddam Hussein and up to 1,100 men under his command.Marines abandoned buildings and bulldozed earthworks in southern and western neighborhoods of the city as the former major general, Jasim Muhammad Saleh, rolled into town wearing his old uniform with its crossed swords and eagle on the epaulets. Hundreds of residents cheered him along the streets, some waving the old Iraqi flag.In a country where tribal loyalties are by far the most powerful allegiance, it is unclear whether support of the occupation forces or national interests can supersede those or whether the Iraqi force will be willing or able to fight the insurgents.Gen. John P. Abizaid, the commander of American forces in the Middle East, cautioned in a teleconference from Qatar that the entry of the Iraqi soldiers would not necessarily quell the insurgency anytime soon. ''I think that we should be very careful in thinking that this effort to build this Iraqi capacity will necessarily calm down the situation in Falluja tonight or over the next several days,'' he said. ''It's a step-by-step effort that will have to include a clear understanding of the security situation.''[Page A6.]''Clearly we will not tolerate foreign fighters,'' he said. ''We will insist on the heavy weapons coming off the streets. We want marines to have freedom of maneuver along with the Iraqi security forces.''
General Saleh is from Falluja, and most of the other officers are from the city or the surrounding area, said Brig. Gen. Mark Kimmitt, a spokesman for the occupation forces.Even as efforts to restore calm were under way in the deadliest month since Iraq was invaded, a suicide bomber killed two marines just outside their camp here, driving his car into their armored reconnaissance vehicle, military officials said. Six other marines were wounded. A South African was killed in Falluja on Friday, Reuters quoted the South African foreign minister as saying. Continue reading the main story
As darkness fell here, there were reports of skirmishes and firefights between insurgents and marines on the edge of the city.The turnabout of the marines and the Iraqi force, with old enemies enlisted as new allies, came as American political leaders and senior Marine commanders sought to avert the potential blood bath -- and negative publicity -- that could come with an all-out assault on the city.General Saleh and a Marine colonel, John Toolan, were met at a checkpoint by Lt. Gen. James T. Conway, commander of the First Marine Expeditionary Force, and the roughly 200 Iraqis who had shown up for duty were waiting, dressed in new American-issued ''chocolate chip'' desert camouflage and red berets.''They looked like they were ready to do business,'' Col. John Coleman, chief of staff for the expeditionary force, said of the Iraqi recruits.Speaking of General Saleh, the colonel added. ''He has his own methods that he will employ in the city.''In his teleconference, General Abizaid declined to speak about General Saleh's background and referred reporters to commanders in Baghdad.
General Kimmitt, at a news conference in Baghdad, said, ''I don't know his background,'' and referred reporters to the marines in Falluja.Officials in Washington said the general was reportedly the former head of the Iraqi Army's 38th Infantry Division, but that could not be confirmed.Sheik Ghazi Sami al-Abid, a wealthy tribal leader in Falluja, said in a telephone interview that General Saleh, a leader of the Mehemdi tribe, was a ''good person.''''If the Americans leave Falluja and support him, he can control security in Falluja,'' the sheik said. ''If not, then he will have problems.''General Saleh shook hands with marines at a southeastern entrance to Falluja on Friday. Wearing a red beret, he rode in a sedan through the streets and visited tribal leaders in one of the city's largest mosques.The siege of Falluja has become a rallying point for anti-American sentiments across the Middle East, and the military has tried to avoid an invasion to root out an estimated 2,000 insurgents operating here.The plan for the Iraqi force surfaced Thursday in a meeting with top Marine commanders and Iraqi officials. The force was then being called the Falluja Protective Army; by Friday, it had become the First Battalion of the Falluja Brigade.Trained by the marines, the force will initially be assigned to checkpoints as most of the marines withdraw to the perimeter of Falluja, military officials said.
Even as the new Iraqi force began forming up, the First Battalion, Fifth Marines, pulled back from their positions in the industrial section of the city, which included relatively luxurious quarters in a soda bottling plant. The Second Battalion, Second Marines, moved out of their positions in the southern part of the city. In both units, marines bulldozed or blew up their earthen berm defenses, removed barbed wire and took away sandbags or slashed and emptied them.The Second Battalion, First Marines, however, kept their positions in the tense Jolan neighborhood in the northwest corner of the city, a hotbed of insurgent activity where there have been a number of gun battles in recent days.Military officials took pains to assert that they were not ''withdrawing'' but ''repositioning.'' General Kimmitt said, ''Any suggestion we're handing over responsibility or withdrawing is patently false.''Colonel Coleman, asked what he would tell marines unhappy at giving up their hard-won positions, said, ''I would tell these marines they have been replaced by another element of their force.'' He called the turnover ''a transition of forces.''General Saleh, for his part, told Reuters: ''We have now begun forming a new emergency military force to help the forces of the Iraqi Civil Defense Corps and the Iraq police in completing the mission of imposing security and stability in Falluja without the need for the American Army, which the people of Falluja reject.''His subordinate, former Brig. Gen. Shakir al-Janebi, said ''the people of Falluja'' had chosen General Saleh ''to form and lead a unit that will be in charge of protecting the city.''It remained to be seen, however, how much influence General Saleh and his fledgling troops would have over die-hard insurgents who control Jolan and several other neighborhoods. In past fighting, many of the American-recruited Iraqi security forces have deserted in the face of the insurgents or have joined them.On the southern front in Iraq in Najaf -- which is encircled by 2,500 American soldiers in a standoff with Moktada al-Sadr, a rebel Shiite cleric -- more than 1,000 people protested against the Bush administration's decision to loosen a ban on participation in the government here by members of the once-ruling Baath Party.
The protest was led by Sadr al-Din al-Kubanchi, a prominent Shiite cleric who last week denounced Mr. Sadr and his militia, the Mahdi Army. Mahdi Army members in their traditional black garb attended the rally in a show of solidarity that could upset American plans.American officials have been trying to persuade the Shiite establishment in Najaf to turn against Mr. Sadr, but those efforts could now be complicated by the possibility of the Shiites presenting a united front against the American administration's new policy on Baathists.Soldiers with the First Armored Division abandoned checkpoints surrounding the town of Kufa on Friday, allowing Mr. Sadr to drive from Najaf to a mosque in Kufa where he delivered a fiery, anti-American sermon.Mr. Sadr told thousands of worshipers that the policy change ''proves the Americans hate the Iraqi people.''In Baghdad, from Thursday night to Friday, two Iraqis working with the occupation forces were killed, General Kimmitt said. Ahmed al-Kazraji, a police colonel, was shot dead while leaving his office, the general said. The body of a district council chairman, Zawadi Shaadi, was found hanged in the Shiite slum of Sadr City, with a sign on his chest that read, ''Mahdi Army business.''
John Kifner reported from Falluja for this article and Edward Wong from Baghdad.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
