Suit Claims Racial Harassment at Security Firm With New York City Contracts - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
N.Y. / Region|Suit Claims Racial Harassment at Security Firm With New York City Contracts
Suit Claims Racial Harassment at Security Firm With New York City Contracts
By now, the men are a familiar part of the post-Sept. 11 streetscape of Lower Manhattan, wearing black polo shirts and handling dogs trained to sniff out explosives. They work for MSA Security, a contractor that has made tens of millions of dollars guarding some of the city’s ferry terminals and important buildings.For years, MSA Security has operated quietly and profitably, expanding beyond dogs to corporate investigations and a range of counterterrorism functions, including training troops in Abu Dhabi, in the United Arab Emirates.But the company now finds itself at the center of an internal controversy: Its former chief executive and another former company official have charged that MSA Security tolerated racial harassment of one of the few African-American employees in the corporate office. According to a lawsuit filed on Tuesday, the woman, who worked in human resources, endured years of racial taunts that included being told, “You know what the deal is, Rosa Parks, you go to the back of the line.”The lawsuit alleges discrimination inside a company that has prospered from a raft of contracts with city agencies and institutions, including the city’s Department of Transportation and the New York Public Library. Its bomb-dog division alone has more than $48 million in past and future contracts with the City of New York. Other clients include the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the New York Stock Exchange.In a statement, MSA’s chairman, George Harvey, denied the accusations and said the company would “vigorously defend” itself in the case.
MSA has been a destination for some high-ranking officials leaving the New York Police Department. Two of them, Patrick Timlin and Katherine Lemire, are crucial figures in the case.Mr. Timlin and Ms. Lemire said that when they began investigating inappropriate behavior at the company, they were encouraged to drop the matter and when they did not, one of them was fired, according to the lawsuit.The suit, filed in United States District Court in Manhattan, was brought by Ms. Lemire, a former federal prosecutor who joined MSA this year, after working for more than three years in the Police Department as a senior adviser and counsel to Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly. At MSA, she reported to Mr. Timlin, its chief executive, who first joined MSA in 2005 after two decades in the Police Department. In 2010, he returned to the Police Department, at Mr. Kelly’s request, as a deputy commissioner. In 2012, he rejoined MSA as its chief executive.The lawsuit focuses on what it says transpired after Mr. Timlin was told of an insulting comment directed at a black woman who worked at the firm. According to the lawsuit, the woman had been reading a magazine with photos of women with braided hair when a vice president of the company, Joe Atherall, observed that when he and his bosses saw “someone with a style like that, we think ghetto — not professional.”Mr. Timlin, upon being told of the comment, initiated an investigation. He and Ms. Lemire interviewed the woman, Chanissa Green, who told them about many racially tinged remarks by another employee, according to the complaint.“My grandfather owned your father,” the other employee, who was the company’s former comptroller, told her, according to the lawsuit. For some five years, she had heard insults about her family, her hair and her career prospects, the lawsuit says. “That’s how black people do it,” she was told. Another time, when she entered a room, someone said, “We’re in the ’hood now,” according to the lawsuit and papers filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.Ms. Green, who still works at the company, did not respond to a message left for her at work.The investigation by Mr. Timlin and Ms. Lemire “revealed that MSA executives and supervisors were aware of these racist remarks,” the civil complaint states, “and took no action.”When Mr. Timlin discussed his findings with Mr. Harvey, the company’s chairman, the following month, Mr. Harvey proposed a solution: Mr. Atherall should apologize and the matter need not go further, according to the lawsuit. “I want to make this go away,” Mr. Harvey said, according to the lawsuit, which states that Mr. Timlin recorded the conversation.
Mr. Timlin did not let the matter go. He explained that he later reported his findings to MSA’s corporate board — which included a former Marine general and two bankers with Allen & Company, which owns about a third of MSA Security — according to the suit. In a letter he filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, he said he recommended that a number of employees be disciplined and recommended a suspension without pay for Mr. Atherall. He also suggested that Mr. Harvey be removed from any decision-making role at the company.Instead, Mr. Timlin was barred from the offices and was fired in September. His termination notice said he had engaged in “verbal abuse of numerous MSA executives” and had contributed “to divisiveness and polarization within the company,” among other claims.Mr. Timlin, in his letter to the E.E.O.C., said that his firing was actually in retaliation for “discovering and seeking to properly address a troubling pattern of discriminatory behavior at MSA.” In an interview, Mr. Harvey said  Mr. Timlin’s departure was unrelated to the investigation. Ms. Lemire’s suit claims that after Mr. Timlin’s firing, she continued to voice her concerns that MSA had failed to address the discrimination accusations. She had been hired as president of the company’s investigative division, but her role at the company grew smaller, she contends in the suit. She resigned last month, according to the suit, which says that she was retaliated against for opposing discrimination.There were no responses to messages left on Tuesday afternoon for Mr. Atherall, at home and with a work colleague.In the interview, Mr. Harvey said that Mr. Atherall was on his way to visit an ill family member and was unavailable.  But Mr. Harvey defended him and said that Ms. Lemire’s recounting of Mr. Atherall’s comments to Ms. Green about hair braids was inaccurate.
A version of this article appears in print on November 27, 2013, on page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: Suit Claims Racial Harassment at Security Firm With City Contracts.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
