campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/realestate, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/realestate, position: Bar1
Great Homes and DestinationsVideoCommercialiPhone AppFind A HomeMy Real Estate
floor and raped, can the building owner be held liable for damages? If a rental tenant or shareholder is burglarized because of lax building security, can the landlord or co-op corporation be held responsible?
A decade ago, these questions were of minor concern because few such cases were ever brought. But today owners and operators of office buildings, rental-apartment buildings, hotels, co-ops and condominiums are increasingly having to face such possibilities as the cases pile up and the courts find in favor of the plaintiffs.
''It's something nobody can afford to ignore any more,'' said Joseph Kelner, former president of the American and New York State Trial Lawyers Associations. Not only are such cases becoming commonplace, he said, but awards against owners are also reaching into many thousands of dollars.
Recent decisions and settlements he cited include $500,000 awarded to each of three teen-age girls raped on different occasions in a Bronx apartment house when the lobby- door lock was broken; $200,000 to a woman who was held at knifepoint in an empty elevator and then raped in an unlocked lavatory of a Madison Avenue office building, and $350,000 to a 58-year-old legal secretary who was beaten and robbed after being forced into the darkened, empty ballroom of the New York hotel where she lived. Several suits are pending, Mr. Kelner said, claiming a total of more than $2 million in damages.
Owners and operators are being advised to re-evaluate their security measures, regularly monitor them, develop programs that will encourage residents, guests or commercial tenants to participate in crime prevention and increase their liability coverage. Since the courts are suggesting that owners or operators are reponsible for providing ''reasonable'' security, it might be wise to begin by reviewing existing measures. New York City owners might call the Community Affairs Division of the Police Department (374-5300, daytime only). The office is set up to provide two free services: a crime-prevention specialist who can make recommendations about security and a commmunity-affairs officer from the local precinct who can help establish a tenant patrol and educate residents about crime prevention.
One meeting with the local police at the Cricket Club, a 76-unit condominium in Roslyn, L.I., last year resulted in suggestions for additional exterior lighting and repairs to a fence - a $15,000 outlay that the condominium president, Stanley Silverman, conceded had been of low priority until a couple was robbed in their garage and the association's officers decided on the evaluation.
Because any initial changes should ideally cover those items or concepts judges have singled out in recent cases as specific lapses, Mr. Kelner makes these recommendations:
- Owners of office buildings should make sure empty offices or floors are kept locked or blocked off, even if this means some inconvenience to brokers or prospective tenants anxious to view the space. Leaving such spaces open could be construed as fostering crime.
- Buildings with self-service elevators should have a uniformed attendant in the lobby, and larger buildings should also have a worker who randomly rides the elevators.
- Landlords and co-op corporations must keep access doors locked at all times and offer either a buzzer system or a doorman. Courtyard windows should be barred or locked. An owner who does not fix a lock promptly could be considered negligent.
- Hotel staff members should not give out the room numbers of guests, but instead should ring the extension for the caller. Nor should they allow baggage to lie unattended in the lobby, where a prowler can read the names on the luggage tags and pose as a visitor seeking a guest by name.
OWNERS and operators, meanwhile, say they are getting the help of residents. ''We're both on the same side in this one,'' noted Steven Shragis, vice president for management for Carol Management, manager of rental apartments, office buildings and hotels in New York City. ''Nobody wants a tragedy.''
He stresses the value of having tenants make written requests for corrections or improvements. ''If you just mention the problem to the doorman,'' he said, ''you can never be sure he will remember to pass the word to the super.'' At the company's hotels, Mr. Shragis encourages guests to include any suggestions about possible lapses in security on their ''comment'' cards.
Ruth Hoffman, vice president in charge of rental management at Albert B. Ashforth in New York City, said its tenants were being encouraged to use its 24-hour answering service to report problems. The service is told to alert the appropriate maintenance person or agency immediately.
She also reminds tenants that management can only do so much. ''They must be more careful themselves to see that doors are locked behind them,'' she said, ''or that they do not casually let a stranger in along with them.''
Stuart Saft, vice president of the Council of New York Cooperatives, is urging co-op officers to appoint a person whose sole responsibility is security maintenance. ''That person should continually monitor the system and see that everything's O.K.,'' he said, ''and also secure some input from residents.'' In addition, he suggested calling at least one general meeting on crime prevention that should be addressed by a police representative.
Liability-insurance coverage also needs re-examination, whether the building is apartment rental, office or co-op. Daniel Matassaro, president of A. Matassaro & Company of White Plains, which specializes in the needs of rental and co-op buildings, is typical of brokers now urging owners and operators to enlarge their coverage substantially, just to be sure.
Whereas five years ago he would have considered $1 million adequate liability coverage for a 100-unit building ''in a good neighborhood,'' he is now suggesting $10 million. ''If you do not carry enough,'' he warned, ''the plaintiff could end up owning that building or the co-op corporation could become bankrupt.''
Unfortunately that coverage is becoming increasingly costly as the size and number of the settlements against owners mount. For example, Mr. Matassaro said $1 million worth of liability coverage that would have cost $300 five years ago now costs $1,000 or more, depending upon the neighborhood.
He noted that one of his clients, a 20-building rental complex in New York City, just had the annual premium on a $50 million liability policy raised from $27,000 to $80,000. ''It may be expensive,'' he conceded, ''but it's become a necessity.''
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/realestate, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/realestate, position: Inv1
