campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Bar1
A two-week meeting opened here today to prepare an agenda for a new 35-nation European security conference that is to open in November.
Delegations from 35 nations - the United States, Canada and all the European countries apart from Albania -began preparing the agenda and timetable for the conference, the third follow-up meeting in the so-called Helsinki process, which was begun in 1975.
The only public sessions so far agreed to for November are speeches by the delegation leaders.
Austria's Foreign Minister, Peter Jankowitsch, told the opening session here today that he believed there were parallels between the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the 1815 Congress of Vienna, which settled European borders after the Napoleonic Wars. 'Ways of Living Together'
''In both cases,'' he said, ''there is a common attempt by the European powers and those linked with Europe to deal with a variety of questions concerning ways of living together on this continent, above all issues of security.''
Mr. Jankowitsch said he believed the Vienna conference, coming in the aftermath of the successful conclusion Monday of a conference in Stockholm to reduce the risk of war in Europe, could lead to a new period of detente.
The Stockholm disarmament conference, also part of the Helsinki process, formally ended with agreement on practical ways to prevent war in Europe. It ended three days after its formal closing date.
The Vienna conference is supposed to open Nov. 4, and one of the key issues here is how long it will last. The Austrians are hoping the conference will end in August 1987, but the closing date, as well as the agenda, will be fixed in the talks over the next two weeks. Talks May Have to Be Extended
Austrian diplomats organizing the preparatory conference believe it may have to be extended. Accordingly, they bought a special clock with stoppable hands. The clock at the Stockholm conference was similarly stopped when the talks went past the deadline.
Topics for the two-week preparatory conference include establishing the time allotted to review compliance with previous accords and agreeing on the extent to which meetings will be open to the press.
The West will be pushing for more time to review compliance and more access to the press.
The last follow-up conference in Madrid, called to review adherence to the 1975 Helsinki Accords on security, economic ties and human rights in Europe, dragged on for three years.
Western governments have repeatedly accused Soviet bloc countries of failing to observe human rights commitments, like those for free speech and free travel, while the East says full employment and housing are rights that are violated by the West.
The Austrian Foreign Minister said in his welcoming remarks today that he regretted the gap between obligations accepted by signatories to the 1975 Helsinki accords and their actual behavior.
''Again and again we must record serious violations. Again and again the overall positive trend is interrupted by setbacks,'' Mr. Jankowitsch told delegates.
''This discrepancy between word and deed damages the credibility'' of the Helsinki process ''and represents the biggest obstacle for its further development,'' he said.
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Inv1
