Mine Kills Civilians as Fighting Heats Up in Eastern Ukraine - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Europe|Mine Kills Civilians as Fighting Heats Up in Eastern Ukraine
Mine Kills Civilians as Fighting Heats Up in Eastern Ukraine
The wreckage of a minivan that struck a land mine Wednesday in a field near a checkpoint outside Donetsk, in eastern Ukraine.
Fighting that had been quiet for several months between Russia-backed insurgents and government forces has picked up in eastern Ukraine, punctuated by regular artillery shelling, the use of land mines and other tactics that have put civilians at risk.In the most recent fatal episode, a minivan driver cutting through a field to avoid stalled traffic at a checkpoint set off an anti-tank mine. The vehicle was destroyed and all four occupants were killed.A week earlier, intense mortar fire on Ukrainian positions led the army to close the Zaytsevo checkpoint, near the city of Donetsk, citing safety concerns for the civilians trying to cross there.Zaytsevo is one of four checkpoints that cross the line of control in eastern Ukraine. The minivan that hit the mine was near the Marinka checkpoint, also near Donetsk, which became choked with long lines after the Zaytsevo crossing was closed.It was unclear which side was responsible, but Ukrainian forces have been criticized by European monitors for planting land mines near border checkpoints.
Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the European morning.
“It sounded as if a shell landed very close,” said another minivan driver who gave only his first name, Artyom. He added that the force of the explosion blew out windows in vehicles waiting at the checkpoint. Three people died immediately, according to reports, and a fourth in a hospital. “I looked in the rearview mirror and saw a total mess behind me,” Artyom said. “It was hard even to see what was left of the bus.”
Before the mine explosion, Ukrainian officials had defended their decision to close the Zaytsevo checkpoint, saying the long lines were better than the danger of artillery shelling.“We are being criticized for closing the checkpoint, but if we put on the scales inconvenience and people’s safety, we decided that human life is more important,” Pavlo Zhebrivsky, the governor of Donetsk region, said on Tuesday.The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe emphasized in a report released on Saturday that it “continued to observe the presence of mines,” and that observers had seen eight wire-triggered antitank mines near the Marinka checkpoint.In September, Ukraine and the two self-declared separatist states, the Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics, committed again to a cease-fire that was signed in February 2015 in Minsk, the capital of Belarus. After the accord was signed, fighting waned for a time.But the political solution, which calls for Ukraine to change its Constitution and allow local autonomy, and for rebels to surrender control of the border with Russia and allow elections under Ukrainian law, has not followed.
A version of this article appears in print on February 11, 2016, on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Fighting Heats Up in Ukraine.
NATO to Expand Military Presence in Europe to Deter Russians
Russian Intervention in Syrian War Has Sharply Reduced U.S. Options
NATO to Expand Military Presence in Europe to Deter Russians
Russian Intervention in Syrian War Has Sharply Reduced U.S. Options
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
