ANC faces calls to denounce official after antisemitic Facebook post
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jul/15/anc-calls-denounce-rene-smit-antisemitic-facebook-post
South Africas governing party is facing calls to denounce a member of its election campaign who posted an image of Adolf Hitler on Facebook with the comment, Yes man, you were right! Rene Smit, a social media manager of the African National Congress (ANC) in Western Cape province, published the photo at the weekend. Below the Nazi dictators face were the words: I could have killed all the Jews, but I left some of them to tell you why I was killing them. According to South Africas Times newspaper, Smit said she shared the picture as part of the outpour of protest against the Israeli killing of innocent babies and women in the Gaza Strip. She posted the picture and the comment: Yes man, you were right! in her personal capacity, she added. I remorsefully removed it immediately once I became aware that it is inappropriate and offensive. But opposition Democratic Alliance condemned Smit and demanded that she and the ANC apologise. Its national spokesperson, Marius Redelinghuys, said: The post is not only antisemitic and hate speech, but can also be construed as an incitement to violence and is an insensitive insult to victims and survivors of the Holocaust. The ANC must distance itself from this post. Smit and the ANC must apologise unconditionally for these remarks that make light of a great human tragedy. Redelinghuys added: Such discriminatory, hateful and divisive remarks have no place in our constitutional democracy and is starkly at odds with our bill of rights. The South African Jewish Board of Deputies has also taken up the matter and requested a meeting with the ANC secretary-general, Gwede Mantashe. The boards director, Wendy Kahn, said the ANC should distance itself from such comments and say it would not work with that volunteer again. Kahn said: In the past 48 hours the posts on social media have been absolutely appalling and upsetting to the Jewish community. A spokesman for the ANC in Western Cape, Cobus Grobler, told the newspaper that Smit is not employed by the ANC, adding: She assisted in our recent election campaign. Anybody can help us as a volunteer. He said the ANC condemned the conflict on both sides. But the oppression of the people of Palestine is unacceptable. Last week the ANC deputy secretary-general, Jessie Duarte, caused fury by comparing Israels attacks on Palestine with the atrocities of Nazi Germany. The Jewish Board of Deputies described the statement as venomous and insulting and is considering taking Duarte to court. South Africas chief rabbi also attacked Duartes comments. But the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation said on Monday: We are appalled by the one-sided and blinkered response of chief rabbi Warren Goldstein … The ANCs unequivocal stance in the Palestinian crisis is consistent with the global outpouring of anger and a desire to see an end to the illegal occupation of Palestine.
