Bebo founder Michael Birch: ‘I’ve had more failures than successes’
https://www.theguardian.com/small-business-network/2015/feb/13/bebo-michael-birch-more-failures-than-successes
No one could call Michael Birch a failure. In 2008 he sold social networking site Bebo to AOL for $850m. The proceeds from Bebo have enabled him to enjoy an enviable lifestyle in San Francisco, where he owns the exclusive nightclub The Battery. But Birch is the first to admit that he doesn’t possess a Midas touch. Successes have come from persistence and trial and error, and there have been plenty of aborted missions along the way. “I’ve had a lot more failures than successes,” admits Birch. “But there are different degrees of failure. Sometimes you work on something for a week then give up because it won’t work. But I’m a great believer in learning from your mistakes and see it as a positive thing. It’s important to take away lessons and be objective about why something didn’t work out.” Birch’s own path to success started off in a fairly humdrum way. It was partly inspired by sibling rivalry – his older brother Paul was running a startup and he decided to try doing the same. His first idea was a self-updating address book, but it failed to take off. “I told Xochi, my wife: ‘Give me three months and if I am not making any money then I’ll go and get a job.’ Three years later, I hadn’t made a penny,” he says. “Every time I partially thought I might get a job, I decided I’d come so far and learned so much, I couldn’t give up now.” Other failures followed, including a babysitting network which could not overcome the mistrust and concerns of parents. “My parents were part of a babysitting circle when I was a child. So we tried to make that work online… there were a few matches, hundreds maybe.” But in 2003, Birchhad breakthrough with a greeting card site called birthdayalarm.com, and the money starting rolling in. “Birthday Alarm did work and became popular in 2003, and we were taking £10,000 a month, so it was very exciting. Then it went to £10,000 a day and we thought: ‘This is great’. Then we made £300,000 in a month, so that was the biggest turning point for us, by far,” says Birch.     Michael and Xochi Birch, founders of Bebo (the socialising internet website used by teenagers). Photograph: Sarah Lee/Guardian    Birch became fully immersed in social networks and created the now forgotten ringo.com, which he sold for $2m three months after it started. After his exit, Birch returned to his first idea and began to do what is known in the tech world as a pivot. “We went back to the self-updating address book as I wanted to apply everything I had learned so far. Eventually, we turned it into a social network, Bebo, and then it became a success. Bebo was the one that took off and we ran it for three and a half years before selling it.” But entrepreneurs should note that, even when the money came pouring into the bank, success came as something of anticlimax. “There was a complete lack of elation,” says Birch. “It’s like when you’ve finished your exams and you’ve been studying for ages and then when you’ve finished you think you’re going to be ecstatic but after all that build up there’s nothing.”    I didn’t want it to fail, but it did, far faster than I ever thought it would    Bebo was, for a short time, the largest social media network in the UK. It also had a big following in New Zealand but, ultimately, it would be crushed by the all-powerful Facebook, albeit not while Birch was at the helm. “When I sold it I wanted it to be successful, I didn’t want it to fail, but it did, and far faster than I ever thought it would,” says Birch. “We started a year after Facebook but we got ahead of them in the UK as they were slow to get moving there. But then they started to succeed, there seemed a point when they could do no wrong, and ultimately that’s why Bebo failed.” Post-Bebo, Birch set up The Monkey Inferno, an incubator for new ideas, where a team would work on projects in parallel. Birch says Monkey Inferno was about “investing in people, rather than ideas”, and was designed to find winners faster by working on several projects at a time. “All the great internet success stories have one thing in common, and that’s they all have a really strong team – great engineers and designers.” Birch says Monkey Inferno has ploughed through ideas with different levels of progress. Some have simply failed, others have come close but haven’t quite found a big enough market to justify further investment. But Monkey Inferno now looks to be splitting in two, as Birch has eyed two ideas that he wants his team to focus on. However, neither are the work of some hot new Silicon Valley designer, but are in fact Birch’s two most successful ideas – Bebo and Birthday Alarm. Birch bought Bebo back for $1m and has since re-launched it as an irreverent messaging service. “There was some sentimentality in the decision. It was too hard to resist. The amount we could buy it for was, relatively speaking, a small amount. It also had a brand and a connection with people so we thought we could make it make sense.” The new Bebo is being totally reworked. “Not a single line of code from the old site is being used,” says Birch. Meanwhile, Birthday Alarm is also being overhauled and might even get a name change. Birch hopes to be successful once again and, at the time of writing, he and his team were working on new features and ideas for it. He is excited about having another battle with Facebook. “Bizarrely, I think it will be easier than the first time around. That time they [Facebook] could almost do no wrong. This time, people are looking for something new.” Read more • “I was one of the only entrepreneurs not thinking about the internet”• Destined for greatness, but how did these businesses start out? Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.
