Boot up: Google hits florist, HTC's FTC charge, Samsung takes on disability, and more
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/blog/2013/feb/25/technology-links-newsbucket
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team Interflora SEO Penalty Analysis 2013  Martin MacDonald  [On Wednesday] evening, well known florist brand Interflora was wiped off the face of the internet.  Well, in search marketing terms anyway… Searching for the terms [Flowers], [florist], [flower delivery], [flowers online] and hundreds of other related search terms yielded the interflora.co.uk domain in first place – until yesterday afternoon.  Now the website does not even appear for its own brand name.  Reflecting on Googles power: a case for regulation?  Tim Andersons ITWriting Hes written a sort of list, prompted by Interfloras downranking:   9. Users of Google will be grateful that it attempts to improve the value of its search results by reducing the influence of meaningless incoming links. On the other hand, I find it difficult to understand why a user who typed interflora into Google would not want to see the official site at the top of the list, since it is a legitimate business and not in any sense malicious. Of course they do in fact see this, judging from my own experiment minutes ago, but it is an advertisement and not an organic link. The top organic link is not Interfloras own site. 10. Pause for thought: what would be the effect on Googles business if it put ads below organic search results rather than above? 11. The only rationale for (9) above is that Google considers it worth inconveniencing its users (presuming you do not accept that it simply wants to sell more ads) for the sake of the higher objective of penalising sites which, in its view, breach its guidelines. 12. We all have a choice whether to use Google or not; but this choice is not one that fixes the problem. The problem, rather, is the choice which our customers or potential customers make, over which we have no control.  No. 10 is quite a poser. Guardian launches new reader profile pages  Guardian Help  [This] week well be launching a new look for reader profile pages. The changes will bring all your website activity and site preferences into one place, which we hope will make it easier for you to find and to manage them.  Where you actually means everyone else. HTC America settles FTC charges it failed to secure millions of mobile devices shipped to consumers  FTC  Mobile device manufacturer HTC America has agreed to settle Federal Trade Commission charges that the company failed to take reasonable steps to secure the software it developed for its smartphones and tablet computers, introducing security flaws that placed sensitive information about millions of consumers at risk. The settlement requires HTC America to develop and release software patches to fix vulnerabilities found in millions of HTC devices. In addition, the settlement requires HTC America to establish a comprehensive security program designed to address security risks during the development of HTC devices and to undergo independent security assessments every other year for the next 20 years. …the FTCs complaint details several vulnerabilities found on HTCs devices, including the insecure implementation of two logging applications - Carrier IQ and HTC Loggers - as well as programming flaws that would allow third-party applications to bypass Androids permission-based security model.  Tweaking Android makes it buggy, it seems. Samsungs Iill-conceived Apple VoiceOver suit stayed in Germany  AllThingsD  A Mannheim Regional Court on Friday ordered a stay of a Samsung suit against Apple that alleges the iPhone makers VoiceOver screen-access technology violated its patent on display into speech data.  The mechanics of this particular spat and the courts ruling on it are bit too byzantine to dive into here, but its worth a look in broad strokes simply as an example of just how low players are willing to stoop in IP battles like the one between Apple and Samsung. So, in short: Samsung holds a patent on a feature that allows devices to read aloud text to their users with the press of a button. The company asserted that patent against Apples accessibility features, specifically VoiceOver which is specifically designed for anyone with impaired vision. Caught in the middle: The blind, low-vision users, folks with dyslexia and anyone else who might benefit from having what appears on their computer screen described to them out loud. Yes, this move by Samsung against Apple was a tactical one in a nasty battle in which billions of dollars are at stake. Yes, its just business. But its ill-conceived. Even leaving aside the ethics of asserting a patent against a feature designed to help the blind, this is unwise. Its the PR equivalent of punching yourself in the face. Samsung has now identified itself as a company willing to accept the loss of accessibility for the vision-impaired as collateral damage in its battle with Apple.   Bits v. Bytes: Follow the money  asymco Horace Dediu:   the Pixel is a high-end product. Its priced at the top of the range of what a laptop computer might cost (given the dimensions).  Perhaps its part of a pattern where Google will hone its hardware skills toward releasing a phone or tablet it can call its own. Starting with a more traditional computer is easier than trying to deliver on the more demanding smaller form factors. And yet, the more obvious question is why would Google want to be in the hardware business? Isnt being a web-focused company implicitly suggesting that hardware is a commodity to be farmed off to perpetually impoverished and violently abused OEMs? The truth is quite different from this. Samsung currently makes far more operating profit from Android phones than Google does from all its operations.  Oh, you knew that already? F**K CAPTCHA  Harry Brignull Brignull is a user experience designer and consultant:   Users were directed to the sign-up form direct from the homepage before they could interact with the product. As you can see, there was a CAPTCHA at the bottom of the form (powered by reCAPTCHA). With this design, they had a conversion rate of roughly 48%. They then removed the CAPTCHA, and it boosted the conversion rate up to 64%. In conversion rate lingo, that#8217;s an uplift of 33.3%! They replaced the CAPTCHA with honeypot fields and timestamp analysis, which has apparently proven to be very effective at preventing spam while being completely invisible to the end user.  Googles Android reborn as network-hacking kit  Wired.com  The folks at security tools company Pwnie Express have built a tablet that can bash the heck out of corporate networks. Called the Pwn Pad, its a full-fledged hacking toolkit built atop Googles Android operating system. Pwnie Express will be selling the cool-looking hack machines — based on Googles Nexus 7 tablets — for $795. Theyll be introduced at the RSA security conference in San Francisco next week, but Pwnie Express is also releasing the Pwn Pad source code, meaning that hackers can download the software and get it up and running on other types of Android phones and tablets.  Very neat. Google announces Chromebook Pixel: a premium Chrome OS laptop shipping next week for $1,299  The Verge  Google repeatedly told us how smooth and fluid it is to swipe through webpages on the touchscreen on the Pixel, and how it would enable developers to target a broader ecosystem for their apps by allowing their tablet and smartphone creations to have the same experience on the web. If only it were true: the touchscreen response is far from fluid, if Googles on-stage demos and our own hands-on impressions are any indication.  Specifications v experience. The agony of the fanboy  TechCrunch John Biggs:   When you fail, fail gracefully. When WebOS died, fanboys were forced to concede to the fact that their favorite thing in the world was a dud. A group of fans rallied around the open-source version of WebOS and are still futzing around with it, but like a legion of Betamax fanatics, theyre worshipping at the feet of a dead god. Move on. Be nimble and mentally malleable. Learn something new. Still defending PHP to your dying breath? Go learn Python. Think iOS is a blast? Swap your iPad mini for a Nexus 7. I do this quite often and its very refreshing. I learned that I loved Windows 8, for example, and that the Surface Pro is great. I learned these things because Im in a very special position, but you (meaning MG [Siegler]), too, can at least go into the Microsoft store with an open mind and come out potentially changed.  Heres hoping. A wise piece. You can follow Guardian Technologys linkbucket on Pinboard To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service.
