Boris Johnson: Tory 'unelaborated' new Right to Buy can work in London
https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/davehillblog/2015/may/21/boris-johnson-tory-unelaborated-new-right-to-buy-can-work-in-london
Those caring to dwell on the general election campaign may recall David Cameron’s neon lit promise to extend the Right to Buy (RTB) from council tenants to their housing association counterparts. Its glow dimmed soon after it was announced, perhaps because opinion polls - which in those far-off days, people believed - suggested it wasn’t popular with voters. But now that we have a Conservative national government the policy and its implications are a hot issue once more, especially in the capital where housing costs are all we talk about, you know. Boris Johnson himself has been loquacious on the theme and, in particular, the new style RTB. The problem is, the mayor isn’t sure what the policy actually is. Quizzed about it by Lib Dem London Assembly member Stephen Knight at his monthly question time, Johnson spieled amiably about a “basic unfairness” to housing association tenants wanting to become home owners and said the policy could be “extremely effective and advantageous for London.” But he acknowledged, with wryly relished understatement, that it was “at an early stage of elaboration.”  This seemed to be a nice way of acknowledging that his victorious party has landed itself with a large and conspicuous policy commitment whose meaning is alarmingly unclear. Knight lighted on some of its many mysteries. The Tories say they will force councils to sell off their most valuable housing stock when it becomes empty in order to fund new RTB discounts, to compensate housing associations for the homes they lose, to pay for replacement homes and also to fund a (presumably) national brownfield regeneration strategy. Would those sums really add up?  Johnson couldn’t give much of an answer. It’s not his fault. The indications are that the Department for Communities and Local Government can’t give much of one either, or to several other questions I’ve put to it. Will the forced sale of council homes go ahead even if the new RTB is found wanting legally in other respects? Could they confirm that it would be up to housing associations whether replacements homes are for social or “affordable” rent or some intermediate tenure type, such as shared ownership? Will a newly-built council home be deemed vacant and therefore to be sold if not occupied within a certain time? If so, what’s the point of councils building them? No answer to any of those, sadly. The proposals are still being “worked up,” you see. To be fair to the Tories, they did rustle up a bit of detail during the election period. I was told the policy would embrace housing association tenants paying “affordable rent,” the more expensive form of renting from them the coalition introduced, once they’d lived in a property long enough. I was also told that replacement homes would be in the same local authority area. Write that one down and stick it on your wall. But this assurance prompts a crucial further worry. Will the promised replacement homes actually be built at all? The record under existing Right to Buy is, said Knight, “dire” - only one in ten in recent years, according to the Institute for Fiscal Studies. “The evidence is that Right to Buy strips the country of affordable housing rather than producing more,” he said.  Johnson responded only by pointing out that more council homes were built under the coalition that had been under Labour, a matter that causes Labour AMs some pain. But, eager to reassure that he won’t be a government puppet, he planted a Londonist flag in the mighty muddle the new RTB plan appears to be:   I certainly wouldn’t want to see councils in London deprived at a rapid rate of housing stock that is one of their fundamental assets. Nor would I want to see housing associations deprived too rapidly of their homes, which are after all fundamental to their credit-worthiness to their ability to borrow and to build new homes. It’s very, very important that this policy delivers more low cost homes. It will only work for London if it delivers more cash, more homes, more low cost homes, if it makes sure that the cash from the sale of any council homes stays firmly in London and is used to build more homes for Londoners. It would be the height of insanity to use the proceeds of council house sales in London to help build more homes away from London, because is it is London where we have a housing crisis.  He added that the policy should not result in breaking up the social mix of the capital: “The joy and beauty of London is its mixture of socio-economic groups. That’s what we all want and I don’t want to see that eroded by this policy.”  So there it is, on the record. Johnson was also pressed on RTB by Labour’s Tom Copley and Darren Johnson of the Greens. With their help, a motion was passed calling on the mayor to commission an assessment of the implications of the extended Right to Buy for housing associations. He had already indicated that the impact of the policy would be fully estimated. But first, like the rest of us, he’ll have to wait to find out what it is.
