Co-op Bank saved Britannia Building Society from collapse, regulator says
https://www.theguardian.com/business/2014/feb/11/co-op-bank-britannia-building-society
Britannia Building Society would have collapsed if it had not been taken over by the Co-operative Bank, the Bank of Englands chief regulator told MPs. Andrew Bailey said at the height of the financial crisis attention was diverted from Britannias risky loan book by its merger with the Co-op in 2009. Yes, it would have failed. The merger essentially took it out of the limelight and in that sense it achieved its objective, Bailey told the Treasury select committee. Britannia was one of the building societies in 2008 and 2009 that was in trouble. He said Britannia would have been unable to gain funding in the markets because of worries about its commercial property loans and riskier residential mortgages. Lack of market funding was what almost destroyed Northern Rock and Royal Bank of Scotland. A bailout by the government would have also put extra strain on the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, which repays depositors at failed lenders. That, in turn, would have caused other building societies to fail because they could not have afforded to fund the scheme. The Co-op Bank and Britannia announced their merger in late 2008 and completed it in early 2009, hailing the creation of a supermutual that would act in its customers interests while taking on the big banks. The combined bank was led by former Britannia boss Neville Richardson. Though regulators have criticised Britannia before, Baileys remarks are the first time a regulator has said Britannia would have collapsed. From 2011 the combined bank attempted a takeover of more than 600 Lloyds Banking Group branches. That deal collapsed last April shortly before the Co-op Bank revealed a £1.5bn hole in its balance sheet. The crisis forced the Co-op Group to cede control of 70% of the bank to hedge funds and outside investors before the banks former chairman Paul Flowers was embroiled in a drug scandal. Bailey said the Co-ops financial woes were mainly caused by Britannias earlier expansion into lending it was not equipped to manage. He rejected Richardsons claims to MPs last year that the Co-op Bank was the source of most of the problems. MPs asked Bailey why, when he was in charge of bank regulation at the former Financial Services Authority [FSA}, he allowed the Co-op Bank to try to buy the Lloyds branches when he had told the bank it was short of capital. Bailey said it was not his job to run the bank and that if the Co-op had sorted out its finances and governance the deal might have worked. But he admitted the FSA did not have systems in place to run regular and thorough enough stress tests to spot the extent of the Co-ops problems. After spending lots of money the Bank of England will be able to do so later this year, he said. He also rejected former Co-op Bank executives claims that the Bank of England changed its rules on capital, suddenly leaving the Co-op Bank with a gaping shortage. The bank already knew it had a £900m shortfall and had under-reported potential bad debts, Bailey said. Lord Levene, who was chairman of NBNK, which also tried to buy the Lloyds branches, told the committee last month that political interference had scuppered his potential bid. He said former Bank of England governor Lord King had told him NBNK was doomed to fail. Bailey said he had told King before his meeting with Levene in 2012 that there was a lot of political interest in the transaction. Bailey also said the FSA took into account the governments wish for more competition in banking alongside its duty to ensure banks were safe and sound but he said there was no political pressure. Bailey said he told the Co-op Bank to tell Lloyds about his concerns about its capital position in 2011 and that the Co-op passed his views on. He said he was surprised that Sir Win Bischoff, Lloyds chairman, had said he was never told about the Co-ops problems.
