David Cameron's human rights court criticism premature, say campaigners
https://www.theguardian.com/law/2012/jan/25/cameron-human-rights-court-premature
Civil liberties groups have questioned whether David Camerons prescription for reforming the European court of human rights was based on a misdiagnosis of the problem. In a speech in Strasbourg, the prime minister warned that the court was in danger of turning into a small-claims court that failed to deal with serious violations of human rights. Angela Patrick, director of human rights policy at Justice, said the court had been a victim of its own success and a better filtering system to reduce numbers and workload had already been introduced and was reducing the backlog. She said the idea of a twin-track approach, which would overtly privilege some jurisdictions and encourage the court to concentrate on others deemed less compliant, would undermine its work. Patrick said: Some of the cases the government doesnt like deal with issues that are far from small, involving at their heart a fundamental commitment to an absolute bar on torture. Comparing the Strasbourg court to a small-claims court damages our public commitment to the international rule of law. Shami Chakrabarti, the director of Liberty, said: Its hard to believe that the prime ministers Strasbourg speech won him many new friends. But the real missed opportunity was the question of EU accession to the courts jurisdiction. In focusing on criticising the court, he seems to have forgotten its potential for holding mighty EU institutions to account – a principled ambition with appeal across the coalition and beyond. Professor Alan Miller, chair of the Scottish human rights commission, said: The European court of human rights is already well under way in its process of reform and is delivering results. Despite a rising number of cases before it, the court is keeping pace and is reducing the backlog of cases in an efficient way. In fact, it is estimated that the backlog of inadmissible cases will be cleared within four years. It is premature to call for additional reforms just as we are starting to see the positive effects of the latest programme of change. It is worrying when states such as the UK try to narrow their accountability in relation to human rights protection. Not only does it reduce the protection of human rights in Europe, but it leads to a reduction in human rights protection across the world as other countries use that undermining of human rights protection as an excuse to do the same.
