Democrats' 2012 platform policy comes complete with rolled-back rhetoric
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2012/sep/04/democrats-2012-platform-rolled-back-rhetoric
The contrast between the Democrats and Republicans couldnt be sharper when comparing the policy platforms adopted by the two parties at their respective national conventions. But the more revealing comparison is between the Democratic party platform of 2012 and its 2008 edition. Between the two parties this year, gay marriage, abortion, comprehensive immigration reform, healthcare and welfare spending all offer clear and distinct policy differences. In each case the Democrats are in favour and the Republicans are against. Although the official party platforms carry no real weight, with candidates free to adopt or discard them as they see fit, they do highlight one important point: while the Republican platform differs from that of the official Romney/Ryan ticket positions in a number of places, most notably on abortion, it would be hard to insert a Obama-Biden 2012 bumper sticker between the Democratic platform and the presidential ticket. Aside from the political potshots the Democratic platform aims at Mitt Romney, the most significant new language is in its ringing endorsement of gay marriage, which largely aligns with Barack Obamas own recently changed stance. The 2012 platform reads:  We support marriage equality and support the movement to secure equal treatment under law for same-sex couples … We oppose discriminatory federal and state constitutional amendments and other attempts to deny equal protection of the laws to committed same-sex couples who seek the same respect and responsibilities as other married couples. We support the full repeal of the so-called Defense of Marriage Act [Doma] and the passage of the Respect for Marriage Act.  Thats a shift from the 2008 platform, which skated over the issue with vague language of supporting equal responsibility, benefits, and protections. Under the Obama administration, the department of justice has stopped defending Doma, but there have been no moves towards repealing it. Thats unlikely to change soon, barring a dramatic change in the make-up of the House of Representatives. But the 2012 and 2008 editions differ most markedly over national security and civil liberties, especially the closure of the notorious US prison site at Guantanamo Bay; overturning the post 9/11 anti-terrorism laws such as the Patriot Act and trying alleged terrorists through domestic US courts. In 2008 the Democratic party unequivocally stated:  We will not ship away prisoners in the dead of night to be tortured in far-off countries, or detain without trial or charge prisoners who can and should be brought to justice for their crimes, or maintain a network of secret prisons to jail people beyond the reach of the law. We will respect the time-honored principle of habeas corpus, the seven century-old right of individuals to challenge the terms of their own detention that was recently reaffirmed by our supreme court. We will close the detention camp in Guantánamo Bay, the location of so many of the worst constitutional abuses in recent years.  After struggling and failing to meet his own deadline to close Guantánamo and move terrorism trials to the mainland, and now influenced perhaps by the unhappy realities of being in office, Obamas policy as laid out in the 2012 platform speaks in measured tones of checks and balances:  Advancing our interests may involve new actions and policies to confront threats like terrorism, but the president and the Democratic party believe these practices must always be in line with our Constitution, preserve our peoples privacy and civil liberties, and withstand the checks and balances that have served us so well. That is why the president banned torture without exception in his first week in office. That is why we are reforming military commissions to bring them in line with the rule of law. That is why we are substantially reducing the population at Guantánamo Bay without adding to it. And we remain committed to working with all branches of government to close the prison altogether because it is inconsistent with our national security interests and our values.  Politicos Josh Gerstein points out that aside from the non-specific mention of new actions and policies related to terrorism, theres no explicit reference in the new platform to Obamas dramatically ramped up use of drone strikes to kill suspected terrorists. On Afghanistan, the 2008 platforms bold talk of educating Afghan girls and rebuilding the countrys economy from the bottom up has disappeared, replaced in the 2012 platform by grim, pragmatic language of reversing the Talibans momentum and giving Afghans the time and space to build the capacity of their security forces while preparing for the withdrawal of US forces by 2014. The 2012 platform also responds aggressively to a new threat: the Citizens United supreme court ruling that opened a gusher of untrammeled money into American politics. We support campaign finance reform, by constitutional amendment if necessary, is the platform position, one that President Obama announced last week. In all, the 2012 Democratic platform is recognisably related to its predecessor but, like the campaign it represents, it is indelibly stamped with the political pragmatism and rolled-back rhetoric of the Obama administrations four years in office.
