Facebook founder faces lawsuits as questions mount over IPO
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2012/may/23/facebook-founder-regulators-lawsuits
Facebooks initial public offering was meant to fuel a technology-led resuscitation for sickly western stock markets. But three days after being transplanted from the hothouse into the exposed terrain of the Nasdaq exchange, the companys carefully nurtured sky-high valuation has withered alarmingly. Trading 18% below the $38 offer price, the company has a new moniker: Fadebook. Slowly, a picture is emerging of what went wrong. And US regulators are being urged to intervene: the top securities regulator in Massachusetts has issued a subpoena to Facebooks lead adviser, Morgan Stanley, to find out more about its discussions with lead investors. Separately, shareholders have filed a lawsuit at the Manhattan district court on Wednesday accusing Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, and his advisers, including Morgan Stanley, of concealing from them a severe and pronounced reduction in revenue growth forecasts. On Tuesday, a similar suit was brought by a different investor in a California state court. The question they will want answering is whether certain investors may have had access to information that would have dented confidence in the shares, while others were left in the dark. The problems began on 9 May, when Facebook amended its initial public offering (IPO) prospectus with a short and, for some, difficult to interpret reference to the fact that while its usage on mobile phones was growing exponentially, the company was finding it harder to sell advertising on its mobile website than on desktop pages. In other words, revenues were not keeping pace with the growth in users. Analysts promptly began revising their forecasts. Those analysts included Scott Devitt, whose covers consumer internet firms for Morgan Stanley. The bank, as lead underwriter for the IPO, was employed as Facebooks cheerleader-in-chief. According to Reuters – Morgan Stanley has not yet made the date or the content of the forecasts available to the general public – Devitt decided that revenues in the second quarter of this year, which runs until the end of June, would be $1.111bn (£705m), down from an earlier estimate of $1.175bn. He shaved full-year forecasts too, from $5bn to $4.85bn. Facebooks second and third place underwriters, JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs, are reported to have promptly downgraded their estimates too. Participating banks cannot publicly issue research or make recommendations until 40 days after an IPO is priced, but Devitt and analysts at other banks are allowed to communicate their estimates orally to customers. The concern is that this information may then have filtered through to a privileged few rather than the wider public. In a statement, Morgan Stanley said a significant number of analysts in the IPO syndicate reduced their estimates after Facebooks disclosure on 9 May, adding: Morgan Stanley followed the same procedures for the Facebook offering that it follows for all IPOs. These procedures are in compliance with all applicable regulations. The actions of Facebooks underwriters days later gave no hint of the information they were receiving from their own number-crunchers. On Tuesday, 15 May, the range at which they estimated the float would be priced was raised from between $28 and $35 to between $34 and $38. A day later, the insiders and early investors who had invested in Facebook during private funding rounds increased the number of shares they planned to sell during the IPO by a massive 25%. Goldman Sachs decided to sell nearly half its holding, while Manhattan hedge fund Tiger Global increased its sell-off from 3m to 23m shares. Those most likely to have seen the analysts forecasts may have decided that the shares were unlikely to enjoy the customary day-one surge, seen when Google and the professional networking site LinkedIn went public. Basically, for those in the know, at $38 a share Facebook was a sell. Bottom of the tree As is so often the case, smaller retail investors appear to have paid the price. With Facebook, only 10% to 15% of the shares were thought likely to go to small shareholders. There are now estimates that the bulk of the 84m extra shares released last Wednesday went to investors at the bottom of the tree. Before a company goes public, the underwriters, who have been allocated shares to sell on, begin to take pre-orders. In a traditional Wall Street IPO, the bulk of shares will go to those who are prepared to spend the most – pension funds, insurance groups and a few rich individuals. This is because would-be investors offer to buy a high number of shares, in the hopes of being allotted a fraction of their original bid. Those who tried to buy tickets for the Olympics will be familiar with the concept. But with Facebook, smaller bidders suddenly found they were being allotted most or all of the shares they had ordered. Chad Brand, founder of the investment adviser Peridot Capital, had put in orders at E*Trade, one of the brokerage firms allotted a sizable slice of shares. Brand wrote on his blog on the day of the float: I did not really think they would allocate us any shares ... What happened? We got every share we asked for. Some of the retail clients who called him that day were getting up to 20,000 shares. Competition for the stock from larger investors, it seems, had melted away. The story ended well for Brand. He took advantage of a small increase during Facebooks first days trading to sell at just over $40. David Joy, an analyst at wealth adviser Ameriprise Financial, wrote in a note to clients: These developments reinforce the notion that the underwriters did a wonderful job of pricing the offering in order to maximise the profitability to the companys insiders and its private investors but [they] left very little on the table for public investors in the secondary market. A total of 33 banks and brokers were hired to advise Facebook, including Barclays, Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank from Europe. Most institutions likely to employ analysts to cover Facebook were brought into the golden circle charged with promoting it. With so few independent voices to counter the hype, Facebook was oversold. Now with regulators taking an interest, the company and its advisers may now be asked to join smaller investors in paying the price.
