Google's Legalise Love campaign rocks, right? Let's Ask Jeeves
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2012/jul/12/google-legalise-love-campaign-rocks
Googles recently launched Legalise Love campaign works towards decriminalising homosexuality and eliminating homophobia in all countries in which the company operates. By supporting grassroots movements and mobilising other organisations, Google is using its global influence to create inclusive workplaces, and by extension societies, for LGBT people around the world. Awesome, yes? Not so awesome if youre a member of the American Families Association, however. Buster Wilson, the general manager of the AFAs radio network, has announced that the group may boycott Google products. A tricky task, he admits. Much trickier than the AFAs threatened boycott of Oreo for showing an image of rainbow-filled treats for Pride, of Ford for advertising in gay magazines, or of the musical We Will Rock You for being glam rock fabulous (OK, so I made the last one up). But actually this news is also awesome. Because the fewer intolerant rightwing zealots able to effectively utilise global communications the better, I say. Google here has scored a double whammy – promoting gay rights globally and freeing cyberspace from crazies who believe that gay people will be posthumously tortured by monsters with spiky tails. In fact, could someone please inform the AFA that Microsoft publicly supports gay marriage in America? Oooh, or that the chief executive of Apple is homosexual. No, wait – just tell them that Alan Turing, the father of modern computer science, was a gay man, and advise them that its probably best for AFA members to avoid modern technology completely unless they want to catch gay cooties. But lets imagine that the AFA ignores the fact that boycotting Google without also boycotting Nike, Ernst  Young, Ben  Jerrys, Microsoft and countless other companies that publicly support gay rights, is a bit pointless. Lets imagine that they continue in their witchhunt of Gayglers (Googles term for its gay employees and their supporters). How will the AFA continue to spread homophobia and intolerance on the web? What did we do before Google? Oh yes – I remember. We asked Jeeves. I have spent my morning experimenting with the antiquarian butlers effectiveness in the promulgation of anti-gay propaganda. The results are promising. I asked Jeeves How best to deny rights to gay people? In answer, the butler offered a link advising me on ways to deny a fathers visitation rights. I asked Jeeves Gay Rights: What would Jesus do? In answer, I was given information about the time in Bal Gaye right now. Finally, I asked my butler pal another, slightly more leading question: Do gay parents mess up their kids? Jeeves, who had obviously been at Sirs brandy, sent a link informing me that a hodgepodge is not only a disorderly mass of things, but also a type of mutton soup. At this stage, your average AFA member might be tempted to return quietly to Google, tail between legs. This is a boycott that, as Wilson says, will test the meat of their convictions. But what kind of meaty substance is informing this protest? Google isnt lobbying for gay marriage in America. In fact, a spokesman at the first Legalise Love conference in London said: This really doesnt affect the US or most of the countries where we have offices. Can it be so important to the AFA that faraway gays in Singapore and Poland continue to be oppressed? Singapore isnt even a predominantly Christian country – theyre all going to the fiery monster place when they die anyway. Or limbo. Or something. To afford the AFA credit which it probably doesnt deserve, we could perhaps root the boycott in discomfort with a global conglomerate, the representatives of which nobody has elected, openly pushing for legislative and social change. About this, Im conflicted. On the one hand, its refreshing to see a major company distance itself from the profit motive and take a stand on ethical issues. This was certainly my feeling when Google pulled out of China in 2010 in response to the countrys censorship practices and alleged hacking of email accounts of political dissidents. While some have tried to paint Legalise Love as an economically motivated move (insofar as the company wants to employ the best and brightest and some of these are, of course, LGBT), its very hard to see Googles actions in China in a similar light. Taking the moves in tandem, it seems that Google is not just a financially motivated institution, but also a morally and politically motivated one. Heres the dilemma: Im shouting Google rocks! from the rooftops because the company is using its power to initiate change that I believe to be humanistic, tolerant and ethical. But what if it wasnt? What if an equally powerful company tried to lobby governments to curtail gay rights for the benefit of its anti-homosexual employees, or to limit maternity rights based on libertarian principles, or to suppress affirmative action programmes based on the totally excellent its discrimination against rich whities argument? If this were the case, Id have to seriously consider ways in which to change my consumer behaviour. Id have to take a long, hard think about the powers corporations have, the powers they should have, and about the logic of democracy. More challenging still, Id have to ask Jeeves. • Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree
