Hillary Clinton's voter rights crusade
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/aug/14/hillary-clinton-voter-rights
It look increasingly likely that Hillary Clinton will be taking another shot at the presidency in 2016. She hasnt announced her candidacy yet and may not do so for at least two more years, but preparations appear to be underway – and pretty much everyone seems to be assuming that getting the Democratic nomination is a done deal for her. Which, of course, would mean that we might soon have our first woman president. Time will tell how this will all play out, but at least we can take comfort in the knowledge that if Mrs Clinton actually does become the 45th POTUS, it will not be because she or any other power players in the Democratic party spent years devising ingenious schemes to disenfranchise blocs of voters who tend to support the opposition. On Monday, in the first of a series of policy speeches, Hillary Clinton spoke about the worrying implications of the US supreme courts recent decision to strike down a key provision of the Voting Rights Act (VRA). The provision required states with a history of discrimination to get pre-clearance from the Department of Justice (DOJ) before they passed any laws that changed voting procedures. Clinton pointed out that in the past 15 years, the VRA has been used to block nearly 90 attempts to pass discriminatory voting laws. Since the provision was struck down just over a month ago, Republican law makers in several states have wasted no time ramming through highly restrictive voting laws that will make it more difficult, if not impossible, for millions of Americans to exercise their right to vote. In Texas, Republican lawmakers didnt wait for the ink to dry on the supreme court ruling before enforcing a voter ID law that a federal court had already invalidated. In a move likely to bring back memories of the dreaded 2000 election, Florida is restarting a purge of its voter rolls. The Republican governor of North Carolina just signed a bill into law that Clinton described as reading like the greatest hits of voter suppression. Some of its highlights include strict photo ID requirements, no more same-day registration, restricted early voting (if any) and no extended voting hours to accommodate the resulting long lines. All of these measures are almost certain to disproportionately impact African-American, Latino and young voters. Yet, the Republican lawmakers who rushed to enact them would like us all to believe that its just a coincidence that these are the very same groups of voters who tend not to vote for Republicans. The strict and often impossible-to-meet ID requirements are all about stamping out voter fraud, were told. This would sound somewhat plausible if it were not for the rather inconvenient fact that no lawmaker, Republican or otherwise, has been able to produce any evidence whatsoever that voter fraud exists in any meaningful way. (And its not like they havent looked.) The stamping-out-fraud argument falls even flatter when GOP legislators make on-camera statements like the one made by the Pennsylvania GOP party chairman Rob Gleason last year when he boasted that they had managed to cut Obamas margin of victory in the state by 5% and that voter ID helped a bit in that. An earlier comment made by his Republican colleague Mike Turzai didnt do much for the fraud argument either:  Voter ID, which is going to allow Governor Romney to win the state of Pennsylvania, done.  As it happened, voter ID did not help Romney all that much in Pennsylvania, but these statements make a mockery of the Republican partys justification for their voter suppression tactics. Even if one were to take a leap of faith and accept the fraud argument, there is no justifying the restrictions on same-day registration, on early voting, or the refusal to extend voting hours to ensure that everyone who has stood in line gets to cast their vote. It also doesnt help that there is evidence of blatant discrimination, in Ohio in particular, that has led to ten-hour waits in poor minority areas as opposed to ten-minute waits in nearby affluent white ones. So, along with many voting rights advocates, Hillary Clinton would like to see an end to the ongoing Republican efforts to disenfranchise millions of American voters. In her speech she called for:  An approach that moves on multiple fronts at once – stepped up enforcement by the Department of Justice, new legislation from Congress and grassroots actions by citizens and lawyers across thecountry.  Attorney General Eric Holder is already attempting to use other sections of the VRA to undo the Texas voting law and the ACLU mounted a challenge to the North Carolina law the same day it was signed. It may be a long time before Congress will make any meaningful effort to restore the VRA provision, however, particularly as the lower house has a Republican majority, whose members are likely to benefit from the disenfranchisement of voters who dont care for Republican policies. Now, a cynic could say that Clinton is looking out for her own interests by fighting to prevent the potential disenfranchisement of millions of Democratic-leaning voters. She will certainly need the African-American vote if she is to win swing states like Ohio, Virginia and Florida – and, no doubt, will be playing up her role as the loyal wife of the first black president (and loyal supporter of the other first black president) to secure it.  Ultimately, though, Clinton will have to win voters over with policies that best serve their interests. That is how elections should be fought and won. If Republicans get their way, however, the tactic of simply stamping out chunks of the electorate may do just as well.
