Hollywood needs to change its game in the age of Rotten Tomatoes
https://www.theguardian.com/film/2015/sep/08/hollywood-rotten-tomatoes-jurassic-world-fantastic-four-terminator-genisys
The blockbuster movie era ushered in by Steven Spielberg’s Jaws in 1975 has given us many joys. Star Wars, ET, Jurassic Park and Avatar would all have struggled to get the green light prior to Hollywood’s great mid-70s epiphany, when the industry suddenly worked out it could release a big-budget movie on thousands of screens across the US over a single weekend and reap the rewards, instead of staggering the release as was the norm.    Related: Fantastic Four review – murky and misjudged    However, it’s not hard to argue that there has also been a downside. The determination of certain filmgoers to view the likes of Mamma Mia! or Four Weddings and a Funeral four or five times can surely be linked to the blockbuster era’s ability to create a sense of mass hysteria around popular movies. And Hollywood’s introduction of huge marketing campaigns and selective review quotes (often from lesser-known critics) to bolster its enormous release plans have benefitted far worse films than these. It is hard to believe that the Transformers films have racked up more than $3.7bn (£2.4bn) worldwide over the past decade. But might change be at hand? Last week, the Hollywood Reporter described the box office “tracking” system, which studios use to predict how well movies will fare on a given weekend, as “broken”. The trade bible’s verdict came after Mission: Impossible – Rogue Nation, Trainwreck and Straight Outta Compton radically outperformed expectations in the US this summer. Meanwhile, Fantastic Four, The Man from UNCLE, We Are Your Friends and Terminator: Genysis all found themselves falling way below their predicted take.     High hopes … but Fantastic Four found that in the age of social media, it couldn’t rely on a big marketing push alone. Photograph: 20th Century Fox/AP    The successful films all picked up high scores on the critical aggregator Rotten Tomatoes and benefitted from the ensuing positive word of mouth on social media, while the underperforming efforts all struggled to convince critics and Twitter and Facebook users of their charm. And no amount of marketing cash could make the blindest bit of difference to the outcome. In the case of Fantastic Four, this sea change must have come as a huge shock to 20th Century Fox, which previously posted strong box-office results for poorly reviewed superhero films such as X-Men Origins: Wolverine, X-Men: The Last Stand and two previous Fantastic Four movies. Suddenly, they discovered that the old tricks no longer do the business.   Related: Terminator: Genisys review – Arnie's back, in a cynical franchisebot    Box-office tracking experts told the studio that despite appalling reviews, outrage on Twitter from filmgoers who had seen the film and a run of negative pieces across the fanboy blogosphere, the superhero movie would open to $40m plus – in fact it managed just $25.6m, and has since dropped out of the US top 10 with $155m worldwide, meaning the studio is likely to lose up to $60m on the picture.  By all rights, Alan Taylor’s abominable Terminator: Genisys ought to have proven similarly disastrous for its producers, following a weak $89m North American take. But the latest torrid outing for Arnie’s grizzled T-800 cyborg racked up $346m in the rest of the world, including a phenomenal $111.92m take in China, to receive a reasonably grand global total of $435m. Further sequels now appear inevitable. But not all Hollywood films are able to secure an opening in the world’s most populous nation, and it remains unusual for big-budget movies to make it into the black without a healthy return from the US heartland. The Chinese get-out-of-jail-free card is limited in its effect. A safer method for ensuring success would be to take the Jurassic World approach. Rather than rushing the film into production following the box-office failure of previous instalment Jurassic Park III in 2001, Universal spent more than a decade working out the best way to mount a reboot, and was rewarded with $1.64bn in receipts. Just imagine if other studios decided to follow suit when planning their forthcoming slates, spending more on assuring online acclaim than on overblown marketing. Four decades after Jaws launched the blockbuster era, it might just be safe to go back into the multiplexes.
