How councils can talk to the public via Twitter and Facebook
https://www.theguardian.com/local-government-network/2014/jul/01/councils-talk-public-twitter-facebook
Last year, 98% of UK authorities were using digital or social media to engage communities. Here in Australia, where this data is collected less frequently, more than two-thirds of responding councils were using social media in 2011. A lot has been written about the interactive nature of Twitter and Facebook and its capacity to help get the wider public involved in local decision making. This big picture engagement is important, but our experience in Melbourne shows people also turn to these platforms to find out about everyday concerns, such as when rubbish will be collected and to ask about broken street lights. This seems to be similar to what is experienced in the UK: 64% of UK councils were using social media for customer service last year, up from 45% in 2012. For many of us, what started as a marketing channel has become a customer service channel, too. There seem to be three main reasons that people turn to social media for help with services: ImmediacyCouncils in our state are seeing a decrease in the number of people making inquiries in person and an increase in the number of social media inquiries. This is hardly surprising, but before attributing it to the shift to digital, interestingly email inquiries are also down. At the same time, the number of phone inquiries is rising. What do these forms of contact have in common? They are both immediate. Of those who contact an organisations via social media, 42% expect a response within the hour. Dissatisfaction with other channelsThis is another reason people turn to social media. Looking into this can help councils identify when a poor service is being offered. For example, if customers emails are not answered and they turn to Twitter to complain, those public complaints can be held up as an example of why better email responsiveness is important not only for customer satisfaction, but also for a councils reputation. Public accountability for councilsAny resident contacting their council on Facebook or Twitter is well aware that others can see the interaction, and probably expects to get better service as a result. So should councils keep the interaction on social media or turn to private channels? It depends. There can be great value in having the public see that requests are followed through or reading the rationale for councils actions. Its also important to re-direct customers as little as possible. If a council has a phone number, youd expect an officer to help you on the phone. Similarly, if a council has a Facebook account, customers expect an officer to help them on Facebook. The average punter doesnt care if the Facebook account is looked after by marketing staff who dont know anything about their bin collection. To them, the council is the council. That said, marketing and communications staff can find themselves playing middlemen when other departments are not familiar with social media. A compromise can be to move the interaction to live chat, a feature a growing number of councils are adding to their websites. Scroll through the Facebook and Twitter pages of the leaders in social customer service – large retailers, utility companies and telcos– and youll find this method employed often. It satisfies the customers preference for an immediate, online interaction and lets staff get personal details from the customer in private. For councils, social customer service is a new and potentially daunting way of doing business. It requires officers to be both customer service focused and also a bit PR savvy. Like any change, it may be more resource-intensive as systems are developed and settled into. Ultimately, however, it brings greater transparency to the way councils interact with citizens, and provides opportunities to display good service. Iona Salter is digital media officer and Marco Bass a marketing and communications manager at Moreland city council, Victoria, Australia • Want your say? Email sarah.marsh@theguardian.com to suggest contributions to the network. Not already a member? Join us now for more comment, analysis and the latest job opportunities in local government.
