How the public sector is finding its social media voice
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/feb/12/how-the-public-sector-is-finding-its-social-media-voice
When a drunken fan dialled 999 demanding to speak to Sir Alex Ferguson after Man Utds League Cup defeat on penalties to Sunderland last month, quick-thinking local police responded promptly – with a post on their Facebook page.  Obviously, it can be a sad and depressing moment when youre [sic] football team loses a game, however can we all please remember that 999 is to be used for emergencies only. The result was a PR coup for this worthy message, winning media coverage nationwide and more than 5,000 Facebook shares. Amanda Coleman, head of corporate communications at Greater Manchester Police sees it as a validation of the forces three-year old strategy to put social media in the hands of individual officers. Writing on her blog (where else?), she highlighted the impact: Before we made the changes the way such a story as the 999 call would have made its way to the central communication team would have been long and tortuous – if it had ever made its way to us.  Of course there are still occasional mishaps, too. An insensitive tweet about Facebook bullying from police in Salford earlier this month [February 6th] earned more than 3000 unwelcome retweets and was followed by an apology.  There will be times when things do go wrong, says Coleman. The role of communications staff should be to give guidance and encouragement: It is not about controlling, chastising or questioning but has to be much more about building confidence for the future. Handled properly, social media can be a valuable channel for public servants to engage with the communities they serve. But there is an added twist when compared to the commercial sector: as well as consumers of the service, the public are also, ultimately, its owners too. So while there is no doubt that members of the public react well to social media initiatives by public bodies, they are also quick to respond when they see something they do not like. As with all social media, authenticity is the key to success. As Matt Jukes, head of digital for the Office of National Statistics (ONS) says in his own list of 10 social media principles, Mistakes happen. Admit them. Move on. But how does digital engagement work for central government? People have a vested interest in their own neighbourhood. There are common points of reference a police force can use to engage with social media users in its area. Central government campaigns, on the other hand, operate at a scale that can make personal engagement daunting.  Thus most of the social media initiatives by central government departments focus on outbound messaging. The Ministry of Defence encourages soldiers to blog about their experiences – while being careful to think before you share operational and personal details. The DVLA has used Twitter to glean better feedback on the design of its online applications. The taxman is exploring the use of Twitter and Facebook to remind you when your tax return is due.  Two-way communication is much harder to achieve, but it should be the essence of social media marketing – especially in the public sector, where citizens are not merely consumers but also stakeholders.  Policy making is a particularly important area where central government can harness social media to broaden engagement and, ultimately, produce better outcomes. At the Department of Health, this is specific aim of the digital communication strategy. Head of digital, Stephen Hale, writes: We are making our digital communication campaigns useful at every stage of the policymaking process, rather than just being useful when we need to publish, broadcast and explain the final product. Dementia is one high-profile policy area where this has been put into practice. Social media has helped the department take engagement beyond the usual suspects who sit on expert groups, according to Anna Hepburn, digital lead for the dementia campaign, to reach people with day-to-day experience of living, caring or working with dementia.  Engaging with networks such as the #dementiachallengers hashtag group helped ensure that the voices of those living with dementia were centre-stage at the UK-hosted G8 dementia summit that took place in December. Planned, in Hepburns words, as a truly digital summit … open to anyone with internet access, the event was livestreamed to a global audience on the departments Dementia Challenge website, which also hosted a live blog, a Flickr stream, highlights from the tweet stream surrounding the event and several moving videos by people with dementia and their carers.  Careful planning with a specific goal in mind is the key to success with this type of initiative, advises Hale: Our best examples of digital engagement at [the department] tend to have a narrow rather than broad focus, with very specific digital objectives. Have a plan for where digital can be most useful, write it down and deliver it.
