I'll have what she's having: get ready for social search
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2013/sep/02/get-ready-for-social-search
Facebooks Graph Search went live in August 2013, with founder Mark Zuckerberg claiming that it is a key pillar of the Facebook platform. The concept is simple: you can search with results personalised based on the preferences of your Facebook friends. Search for Restaurants in London, for example, and places your friends have liked by subscribing to its Facebook page will be towards the top. As it stands, Graph Search today is disappointing. It searches only a subset of Facebook content, and is limited to people, places, photos and interests. When I searched for New York restaurant it found a cafe in Brighton – silly me, I should have searched for Restaurant in New York. Other than for a few kinds of searches, this is not an alternative to Google, and therefore most users are unlikely to break their existing search engine habits. Despite these limitations, the concept has huge potential.  Recommendations from friends are more powerful than advertising for influencing purchase decisions, but finding those recommendations today is a matter of chance or specific request. If Facebook, or another platform, works out how to discover the preferences of trusted contacts automatically, the effect will be profound. Search engines already deliver personalised results, but Facebook says it plans to broaden Graph Search to include more content, including web content connected via Like buttons.  It is also worth noting that Microsofts Bing announced integration with Facebook back in 2011, but only in the US. The mighty Google also offers social search, albeit primarily linked with its own Google+ platform. None of these platforms has it right yet, and their competing interests are holding back progress, but as the amount of personal data shared on the internet increases, the rise of social search is inevitable. The implication for businesses is that they must focus on ranking highly not only in search, but also in social search. An effective presence on Facebook and Google+ is essential, as is winning recommendations: not an easy task, but reinforcing the point that social media marketing is inherently customer-focused.
