I'm the same age as the web, and it's shaped my life – for the better
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/mar/18/age-internet-shaped-life-social-media-twitter-facebook
According to Google’s related searches, millennials are seen as “screwed”, “lazy” and “entitled”. A stock photo used to describe us will often show a 20something blogging in bed, or perhaps living the “digital nomad” lifestyle – holding a laptop, hanging out in a hammock in Bali. And yet brands court us fervently, and sites like Inc.com regularly champion millennials with articles like “Why I love hiring millennials” and “Managing the millennial superstar”.  These two extremes are common, especially in the workplace. Superstar or nuisance. Love us or hate us, for the first time it’s been possible for a younger generation to know more about technology than our bosses. As part of this generation, when I think of words to describe millennials I would say “curious” and “disobedient”. I’m proud to be grouped in this bracket, despite the constant claims that we’re all entitled narcissists. We are the group in society that grew up alongside the internet and can now use it to our advantage, having been exposed to the dark side of it during our early years. We weren’t already fluent in emoji on exiting the womb like Gen Z, or enamoured with our very first iPad almost halfway through our life like the baby boomers. We were experimenting with the earliest days of the internet before anyone else. And mostly in secret.   Related: 22 reasons why it’s good to be a millennial | Daisy Buchanan    I find it interesting that I am the very same age as the worldwide web, both of us born in 1989. So interesting, in fact, that I decided to write a book about it called Ctrl, Alt; Delete, How I Grew Up Online. Nowadays, everyone is Snapchatting with their eyes closed, but we millennials saw the evolution of social networking in all its cringeworthy infancy. We knew the internet before it got upgraded and looked all fancy. Computers were huge; laptops weren’t yet marketed to you as being “as thin as your credit card”, and a dial-up modem would startle you like a car alarm. Before Wi-Fi was a thing, we used the worldwide web for years in all its slow, pixellated, noisy, clunky GeoCities glory. In the early noughties, my teenage peers were none too kind to each other online. I have stinging memories of MSN bullying, where I was added to a group conversation, only to be verbally attacked by all different group members in an array of different fonts and colours. If you “left the conversation”, they would keep adding you back. Then they’d fire MSN “nudges” at you until your screen froze and finally kicked you out of the group. There was also the casual webcam request, usually asked by a school crush, asking you to turn on your webcam while you sat there trying to look pretty. You’d later realise he never turned his on because he had a group of mates round, and they had spent the evening secretly mocking you.     ‘I remember the first feelings of addiction too: the buzz of getting a text message.’ Photograph: David Sillitoe for the Guardian    I remember the first feelings of addiction too: the buzz of getting a text message (we only had a few free texts a month, we were picky with what we sent) and robbing my mum’s credit card to rack up a bill of buying “credits” for Habbo Hotel (a social network founded in 2000 where you built a character and could buy “furniture” for your “house”.) On holiday, I would beg my parents to drive me somewhere so I could check Facebook. Instead of jumping in the pool, I kept nagging them drive me to an internet cafe. There was a strong pull towards wanting to open unread messages, but there was still a barrier to prevent us being online 24/7. Did all this secret poking around on the early days of the internet scar me? Actually, I would say it prepared me. Group chat bullying prepared me emotionally for the Twitter trolling I would receive a decade later as a female journalist. Excessively charging my parents’ credit cards buying too many ringtones for my Nokia phone via TV ads prepared me to ignore any pesky online ads on my Facebook newsfeed. Having a cyber-stalker from a chatroom who would leave threatening voicemails on my phone taught me not to trust anyone hiding behind online anonymity and not to give out my phone number to strangers. Attempting to edit my own face using only a retro version of Microsoft Paint taught me what a waste of time it was trying to airbrush photos of myself.   Related: Millennials self-police speech all the time, and that’s no bad thing | Phoebe-Jane Boyd    This early experience is vastly different than that of teens now, who have entered a tech-savvy world where social networks are not blossoming, but peaking. Back then, we were freaking out about chain emails that might kill you if you didn’t forward it to five people in five minutes to think about our online “brand”, but now, social networks are less about talking to your friends and more about amassing followers and making connections. So is using social media at a young age a bad thing? I don’t think so. On the whole, the internet continues to educate and inform us. My six-year-old niece is a genius on an iPad and already knows how to work her way around BBC iPlayer and YouTube. She used an app to help teach her how to tell the time, which really impressed me because I was about 12 when I finally figured that out.  I look around at teens on social media and feel proud of their passion to change the world. Whether it’s via a Tumblr account or a young person taking the stage at TedXteen, young people are campaigning about real causes from their smartphones, and it’s not just hashtag activism. They are becoming more aware of who they are, more quickly, thanks to the internet.
