It's not marriage equality until same-sex parents both appear on birth certificates
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/oct/26/its-not-marriage-equality-until-same-sex-parents-both-appear-on-birth-certificates
Married parents take for granted that children born during their marriage belong to both of them, a fact made official on their children’s birth certificates. But even though marriage has been legal for same-sex couples nationwide since June, lesbian couples and their children in some states still don’t have the same assurance. Most states, such as Texas and Louisiana, which banned marriage for same-sex couples prior to the US supreme court’s decision in Obergefell v Hodges, responded to that decision by issuing two-parent birth certificates to children born to lesbian spouses. However, a handful of states inexplicably are holding out, refusing to recognize such children as having two legal parents at birth.  Same-sex couples in Wisconsin, Indiana and Florida are still in court, seeking recognition of their marriages in order to obtain two-parent birth certificates for their children. Utah recently settled a similar lawsuit by agreeing to provide two-parent birth certificates to the children of same-sex spouses. The states that continue to fight these families in court argue that birth certificates are a proxy for biology, and that the members of a same-sex couple can’t both be biologically related to their child. (This is technically false, as an increasing number of lesbian couples use reproductive technology where one mother carries the pregnancy and the other donates the egg.) These states are flat-out wrong about the purpose of a birth certificate, which documents legal parentage and not biology, as any adoptive child can tell you.  The law in every state requires a husband’s name to go on a child’s birth certificate at birth regardless of whether the husband has a genetic connection to the child (either as a result of the couple’s use of reproductive technology or because his spouse became pregnant by a non-marital partner). This is because the husband is the child’s legal parent based on his marriage to the child’s mother until a court determines otherwise. This rule – that a birth mother’s spouse is the legal parent of a child born during their marriage (the “spousal presumption of parentage”) – should apply equally to the marital children of lesbian spouses, as numerous courts already have pointed out. Birth certificates are the single most important identity document for a child. When a state omits one of a child’s parents from his or her birth certificate, the state stigmatizes the child by erasing the love and contributions of one of the child’s parents, sending a state-sanctioned message to the child and everyone else who sees the child’s birth certificate that the child and both parents are not a recognized legal family, and improperly labeling the child as having unwed parents.  The omission of one of the parents on a birth certificate also creates practical problems for the child’s parents, who need accurate two-parent birth certificates in order to enroll their child in school, travel or apply for child-centered benefits.  Punishing children for having same-sex parents even though their parents now are legally married continues even though the supreme court decision specifically addressed kids’ well-being as one reason marriage equality is crucial. The majority decision held that marriage “safeguards children and families”, and that marriage bans hurt the children of same-sex couples in addition to the members of the couple themselves. When government labels these families as unworthy of marriage, “children suffer the stigma of knowing their families are somehow lesser.” As frustrating as it is that families continue to have to fight for legal recognition of their relationships, perhaps we should not be surprised. No court case, no matter how historic, has ever ended a civil rights struggle or state-sanctioned discrimination, and our marriage victory is no exception. (We both work for Lambda Legal, which represented four married couples in one of the six cases that comprised the Obergefell decision. As a result of our victory, our clients received two-parent birth certificates for their marital children.) When Lambda Legal won a landmark victory before Iowa’s state supreme court in 2009, making Iowa the third state in the country to allow same-sex couples to marry, we had to win two subsequent lawsuits on behalf of Iowa same-sex spouses and their children to obtain accurate vital records. In one lawsuit, we represented a married lesbian couple grieving the death of their stillborn baby. The Iowa department of public health sent them a death certificate for their child with the name of one of the mothers crudely whited out, compounding their pain. The agency argued, unsuccessfully, that this couple could not both be biological parents to their child, even though they had used an anonymous sperm donor and one had donated the ovum, and another carried the pregnancy, and even though the state routinely issued two-parent death certificates to other grieving parents when the husband was not the child’s genetic father. In another case, we represented lesbian spouses seeking an accurate birth certificate for their child. After two years of legal battles, the Iowa supreme court ruled, as every other court to hear a birth certificate case has done, that a marital child of a same-sex couple has two legal parents from birth, and that depriving those children of two-parent vital records is unconstitutional. As the Iowa supreme court put it, “the only explanation for not listing the non-birthing lesbian spouse on the birth certificate is stereotype or prejudice.”  Hopefully Wisconsin, Indiana and Florida will not take as long to remedy their continuing discrimination. Until then, same-sex spouses and their children continue to suffer the indignity of state-sanctioned discrimination, and we continue to fight to make the promise of Obergefell v Hodges and marriage equality a reality.
