Kyle Hall's favourite tracks
https://www.theguardian.com/music/2013/nov/29/kyle-hall-favourite-tracks
The track Ill be opening my next DJ set with Steve Reich: Come Out   Go listen for yourself. A proper creepy hypnotic record sure to get peoples attention, to say the least. The track I always play to rescue a dancefloor Dennis Ferrer  Jerome Sydenham: Timbuktu   I made an extended 10-minute edit of these drums. The tracks really punchy and it works as a good tool to layer under anything that needs a lil oomph for the floor. I wouldnt really call it a rescue so much as an enhancement tool; pretty much always gets the floor going under most circumstances. The track that currently gets the most rewinds Omar-S: Solely Supported  Feels like Ive dropped this acid banger damn near every gig, jeez. The track Id play to show off my eclectic tastes Paul McCartney: Secret Friend   I really like the tropical groove of this record. My friend Femi put me up on this one. The track I think has been unfairly slept on this year GB: The Seeker   Slept on is relative to what audience youre speaking about, I guess. But this is absolutely bananas, I love this record. Way more people need to start paying attention to his music. The track Id play at my aunties wedding Zapp: Computer Love   Depends on the auntie, but one of them would love this; its classic electro. The ideal festival track Anthony Shake Shakir: Pursuit Mix 3  This always reminds me of big crowds. An insanely climactic track. The track Id play at sunset in Ibiza Loftsoul Feat Lisa Millet: Dear Friend (DJ Spinna remix)   The bassline is real sexy. Listen and figure out why its perfect for Ibiza. The best track by my favourite new artist Jay Daniel: Exit   This is out on my label Wild Oats this year. Hes a rising star on the Detroit house scene. The track that should have been a crossover hit Seven Davis Jr: All Kinds   Its not even out yet, but it needs to cross over when it is! The track Id play at my funeral Art Of Noise: Moments In Love (Extended mix)   This is like 20 minutes long; a timeless classic in Detroit. Kyle Hall plays The Hydra: Hyperdub, XOYO, EC2, Sat
