Media scare stories are the real drivers of transparency
https://www.theguardian.com/sustainable-business/behavioural-insights/2015/jun/15/media-scare-stories-are-the-real-drivers-of-transparency
A host of transparency tools are available to consumers wanting to assess the transparency of brands, yet to date their direct impact on consumer behaviour appears to have been nominal at best.  Steve New, associate professor at the Saïd Business School and an expert on supply chain management, says this is in part because consumers don’t make much of an effort to understand the supply chain, though when they do “they are generally well-meaning and horrified to discover the environmental degradation and forced labour that exist in the making of their favourite products,” he says. How are consumers using transparency tools?   Related: Google-backed app helps consumers understand what's in their products    Although still a relatively small proportion of shoppers, use of these tools could be on the rise. Rank a Brand, which grades brands based on labour conditions as well as environmental and climate protection, has seen visitors increase from 102,500 in 2012 to 584,600 so far this year.  Free2Work, a project of Not For Sale, which ranks brands based on their efforts to prevent forced and child labour through the supply chain, experienced a similar rise until last year, when funding dried up. This is a common challenge as many transparency tools are run by NGOs, which must balance competing objectives with limited budgets.Managing budgets for marketing and even updating software to match ever-changing technology can be a challenge.  Scott Kennedy, CEO of for-profit company OpenLabel, says he hopes to make significant strides in transparency through marketing and technological development. There are ways to leverage explosions of visitor access, he says, and tricks to get the right data to people at the right time. Kennedy has innovated a platform that follows the model of Yelp and TripAdvisor, where users and NGOs can give feedback on products. A key to success, says Kennedy, is capitalising on temporary spikes of consumer interest, no matter how brief. But determining when spikes will occur is a challenge. It turns out that increases in visitors after an industry-related tragedy can’t be expected. Often times, says Elin Eriksson, research analyst at Not For Sale, there is no change at all. What’s more, says Mario Dziamski, head of research at Rank a Brand, spikes may only last a day. “The number of visitors that went to our site did increase by around 75% on the anniversary of the Rana Plaza collapse in Bangladesh last year,” says Dziamski. The day after, however, these numbers went back to normal. On the second anniversary, visitor numbers did not change.   Related: Two years after Rana Plaza, have conditions approved in Bangladesh’s factories?    This is because consumers won’t work hard to seek out information, says Kennedy, and generally have short attention spans. Even so, he believes consumers do want guidance. He conducted a poll in 2013 where 81% of the 2,140 participants said that, aside from labels and advertisements, they turn to the internet to research brands. “Information isn’t transferred as much through word of mouth in the real world as it once was,” says Kennedy. “This is good news for mobile-centric approaches to solving the issue of transparency.” Tracking where visitors go after using transparency tools is essential to know whether visitors purchase from the brands they research. Neither OpenLabel nor Free2Work currently includes tracking, though they plan to do so.  WeGreen, an innovative German tool that ranks products and brands based on transparency and social and environmental sustainability, is already tracking the click-and-buy behaviour of its visitors. The company uses a traffic colour-coding system: green for good, yellow for mediocre and red for bad, making it easy for German and non-German speakers alike to assess the sustainability of a wide range of products.  WeGreen also crowdfunded a pioneering add-on to Firefox, Chrome and Safari that is set to launch next month. If the consumer researches an item with a yellow or red colour code, WeGreen gives recommendations for alternative products. Maurice Stanszus, CEO of WeGreen, says he worked with several research institutes to analyse the behaviour of the transparency tool’s visitors. Data analysis revealed that 81.2% of consumers who researched products on WeGreen over the past five years and then went on to make purchases bought sustainable products.  Changing the nature of discourse Still, experts see transparency tools less as a way to change consumer behaviour than as a way to change the nature of discourse with business. In some senses, says New, it doesn’t really matter if only a few consumers use the tools if it means that, overall, firms change their practices.   Related: Behavioural tracking and neuroscience are tools for sustainable innovation    Eriksson agrees. Not for Sale’s newest fashion report (due to launch later this month), which looks at brands such as HM, Zara (Inditex), Adidas and Gap, shows that 66% of companies rated in both 2013 and 2015 improved their grades. Furthermore, says Eriksson, brands were 39% more responsive when approached for feedback in 2015 than in 2013. “This indicates an increase in the importance and prioritisation from the business community to engage with civil society organisations on this issue,” says Eriksson. Brands are more scared of a story in a high-readership publication, which can have complex reputational effects, says New, than they are of consumers using an app as they trudge around Wal-Mart or shop online. Tools make the story more salient, says New, by being part of a bigger picture of how we understand our culpability in the systems of production and consumption. “Provenance tools are ways of opening the debate and also providing some fuel for activists and academics,” says New. “This is not to be sniffed at.”
