Meet the social media guru who makes Monmouthshire rock
https://www.theguardian.com/local-government-network/2013/aug/23/social-media-monmouthshire
Name: Helen ReynoldsAge: 32Council: MonmouthshireJob: Digital and social media manager Describe a typical day in your job I talk to people on social media about whats going on in the county. At the moment were launching a new website, so Im working with people within the council to make sure that theyve got some good content and that theyre not talking in total jargon on their pages. How did you get into this role? I started as a communications person, playing around with Myspace to get young people involved in fundraising for the restoration of a hall. It was from there that I started to get a buzz from what I do. Apart from interaction with residents, how else can social media help councils? It can be useful with stuff like recruitment. Our childrens services team were looking for a new head. We wanted to get across the kind of organisation we are, so we used YouTube to interview members of staff and talk about the realities of the job. Which project that youve worked on are you most proud of? The nicest project I did was working on a new website for our foster care team. They had had feedback from foster carers saying that they werent being informed enough and they felt isolated. A new website would have been expensive so I used a tool called Yammer – similar to Facebook but closed to the public, so staff can talk to each other privately. The foster carers were absolutely delighted. How are government cuts affecting your job? At the moment what were doing is just making sure that were as efficient as possible. Budget cuts mean that we have to use free tools, and often theyre the most effective ones. What do you enjoy doing the most at work? I love writing and blogging and thinking about what people would like to know about. So in my working day Ill do things like some rock-and-roll facts about Monmouthshire. Whats the best way to interact with the public? The main skill with talking to residents is remembering that Im a resident as well. You need to be a human being, and talk like a normal person. Do you ever get to switch off from social media? Last week I went to County Clare in Ireland, and it was too much really, so I had to go and buy a dongle. How do you keep up with technology? I get a lot of information from Twitter. I have a thing in my car to listen to podcasts. Im also obsessed with Google Glass – that could revolutionise the way that we function, particularly as a council, because it might well allow us to provide training in peoples homes rather than having to send them to courses. What are your social media tips? Its about not forgetting the social part of social media. Often people will try to translate the way theyve done things before online. A website isnt the online equivalent of the brochure that you used to have – its a completely different thing. And social media is not marketing. You cant just tell people things and talk at them; you have to expect people to talk back and get involved in conversations. What advice would you give to someone wanting a digital career in local government? It can be very easy if youve got the dedication. I would say just start doing it anyway without having the job. Its a new career in a way, so nobody shows you how to do it. You have to make the path yourself and you have to work out whats important and what the good things to do are. You need to show a little bit of initiative. Do you have anyone who inspires you? Theres this guy called Mark Schaefer whos an American marketer. Hes got this amazing outlook on the future of digital and hes really interesting. • What do you think? Email sarah.marsh@theguardian.com if you want to contribute an article to this debate. Not already a member? Join us now for more comment, analysis and the latest job opportunities in local government.
