National Archives: revelations from the released documents
https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2014/dec/30/national-archives-revelations-released-documents
GCSEs Margaret Thatcher believed the introduction of GCSEs would lead to a “can’t fail mentality” and a lowering of standards in schools, the files show. They reveal she voiced strong doubts to her education secretary, Sir Keith Joseph, when he proposed their introducton to replace O-levels and CSEs. A note for her advisers before a meeting with Joseph reads: “You are concerned that the new approach will lead to lower standards [and] a shift away from the traditional approach to learning in favour of a ‘can’t fail mentality’.” Joseph however managed to assuage her fears, telling her the new exams would inject “more rigour” into the system, and suggested she was in danger of “misleading herself”: “I am quite certain that the new examination is more and potentially very much more stretching than the O-levels and CSEs it replaces,” he wrote. The files also show that a young Oliver Letwin, working in Thatcher’s Downing Street policy unit, advised the prime minister in April 1986 that “education is still, fundamentally, a nationalised industry”. As a first step he proposed a dozen grant-aided primary schools which would be independent but directly funded by the government. Miners’ strike The possible public exposure of MI5’s spying activities in the final stages of the miners’ strike set alarm bells ringing at the highest level of government, the Downing Street files show. The cabinet secretary, Sir Robert Armstrong, told Thatcher he was seriously concerned that it would be “difficult to justify the use of information” obtained by MI5 phonetaps to help the legal sequestrators search and seize the miners’ union’s funds. The threat of public exposure of MI5’s activities came during a legal attempt to seize the National Union of Mineworkers’ funds, which had been spirited away to the Republic of Ireland. The sequestrator involved a partner in Price Waterhouse called Larkins, who had indiscreetly told the Irish lawyers in the case that the names of the bank accounts to which the NUM funds were being transferred had come from a meeting with the cabinet secretary who had been accompanied by “an unnamed name”. Armstrong told Thatcher: “It does not take a Sherlock Holmes to deduce that he was an officer of the security service, and that at least some of his material could have been, and probably was, obtained by interception of communication.” Football Thatcher’s press secretary, Bernard Ingham, wanted to launch a high-profile “goalies against hoolies” campaign involving the prime minister herself in the wake of the 1984-85 English football seasons which had ended in an indefinite ban on English clubs from European matches. The cabinet papers show that government ministers reacted to the death of 39 people in the Heysel stadium riot during the June 1985 European cup final between Liverpool and Juventus with proposals to ban alcohol in football grounds and to introduce membership card schemes. Ingham however advised the prime minister that what was also needed was a public relations campaign to “implant in the public mind the idea that 1984-85 was the low water mark for British soccer; enough is enough”, he told her in a note on 20 June 1985. “A variant of, or added to, this is to try to organise the more articulate goalkeepers, who are often first in line of hooligan fire, to launch a campaign – ‘Goalies against Hoolies’. We are proposing you should give an interview to Gary Bailey, Manchester United and England goalkeeper, from Piccadilly Radio, Manchester – an interview which we should get networked. Bailey is an articulate graduate,” advised Ingham. The note reveals that the idea had come from Elton John, then chairman of Watford football club. Army boots Thatcher was deeply unimpressed by the response of the Ministry of Defence when she took up a complaint about the poor quality of army overboots after visiting the 1st Battalion Coldstream Guards in Northern Ireland. The MoD told her that if there really was a problem with the boots they would have had other complaints. The prime minister went ballistic: “Seldom have I received a more unsatisfactory letter. A bureaucratic gem. I will show it to Anthony Jay,” she scribbled in reply. Anthony Jay was the scriptwriter for the BBC comedy series Yes, Minister. Advertising on the BBC Thatcher suggested that advertising should be introduced on the BBC “light music radio programmes” during 1979, a Downing Street file on the licence fee shows. In December 1984 Thatcher held a meeting with the controller of Radio 3, Ian McIntyre, to discuss advertising on the BBC. McIntyre is described as “one of the few supporters in the BBC hierarchy”. But when the next year Leon Brittan as home secretary proposed the terms of an official inquiry into BBC financing, Thatcher responded: “No, the terms of reference are far too limited. Perhaps I might be consulted?!” 30-year rule Two years of Downing Street and Cabinet Office files – for 1985 and 1986 – have been released together for the first time by the National Archives as part of the move from the 30-year disclosure rule to a 20-year rule governing the release of government papers. The National Archives say recent moves to more rigorous review procedures mean not all 1986 files are available but they intend them to be in the near future. Foreign Office and defence files that have normally been released as part of the annual cabinet papers publication have not been included this year. Mary Whitehouse In August 1986 Douglas Hurd as home secretary defended himself after the moral crusader Mary Whitehouse complained to Thatcher that she had “never been more disappointed by any meeting with a minister”. Hurd had rejected her demand for new obscenity legislation. Thatcher responded to her complaint: “I will, of course, see Mrs Whitehouse. But first I must have a meeting with the Home Office … We have been doing nothing about this subject for years.” Hurd however said Whitehouse had underestimated the difficulties involved in reforming the obscenity laws and her own contributions did little to solve them. “Mrs Whitehouse’s account of our meeting is misleading,” Hurd told Thatcher. “I suspect I started out rather more in sympathy with her point of view than either of my predecessors, but it is hard to sustain this sympathy after experience of her tactics.” ‘Loadsamoney’ culture Britain’s most senior civil servant voiced strong concerns in March 1986 over the first signs of a “loadsamoney” culture developing in the City of London on the eve of the “Big Bang” deregulation of the stock exchange. The cabinet secretary, Sir Robert Armstrong, told Thatcher’s private secretary, Nigel Wicks, he was concerned by the “increasing disquiet” among people who had dealings with the City about what was going on there. “I do not just mean the levels of remuneration; a lot of people, including some from inside the City, think that is a bubble which will be pricked in a year or two. They think more about the way in which corners are being cut and money is being made in ways that are at least bordering on the unscrupulous,” said Armstrong.
