Nightwave's Scooter, this week's best new track
https://www.theguardian.com/music/2014/apr/04/nighwave-this-week-new-tracks
Nightwave Scooter (Heka Trax)      Reading this on mobile? Click here to listen As Superdry-clad uni lads with kebab sauce dribbling from their chins have appropriated dubstep and trap, its been difficult for electronic producers to make aggressive club hits without finding themselves booked at a Lola Lo playing to a bunch of guys poking their cocks out their Kigus. Thank goodness, then, for Nightwave, the Slovenian-Glaswegian DJ, whos new single has struck upon a mutation of footwork thats so unrelenting you cant quite tell if youre hearing individual hi-hats or just an elongated grind. Either way, its disorienting tempo makes it literally undanceable, easily dumbfounding your average Stella-sodden fresher. ALSO OUT THIS WEEK The Vamps Last Night (Virgin)      Reading this on mobile? Click here to view Most of my single female friends tend to be attracted to older, hirsute men with deep-seated social flaws and a job in the creative arts. Yet clearly, teenage girls still get weak at the knees for hair gel, smooth skin and pretend guitar-playing. The Vamps – like previous knicker-moisteners Busted, McFly and One Direction – are clean-cut gurning idiots who sing market-tested lyrics about snogging and dress like indie bands did six years ago. Right now theyre the most eligible teenagers in the world. But one morning their 900,000 Facebook fans will wake up, tear down the bands pictures and replace them with posters of Alfonso Cuarón and David Mitchell. Juce Braindead (Speedy Wunderground)       Reading this on mobile? Click here to listen Juces lead singer Chalin used to be a bouncer in Londons trendiest spots but now she creates RB in its most guttural form; desire and sass spilling over a finger wagging refrain of Say no, no, no, no – braindead, no doubt inspired by turning away tanked up sixth-formers trying to sneak into Fabric on a fake ID. Avicii Addicted To You (PRMD)      Reading this on mobile? Click here to view Avicii recently celebrated having the most-played song of all time on Spotify with Wake Me Up. Hes hoping to repeat the trick with Addicted To You – its got the same folkish chorus, the same build from banjo to balls-out EDM and the same nursery-rhyme hummableness that means youre likely to find yourself singing it before you even know what it is. At the time of writing, Avicii was undergoing surgery to remove his inflamed gallbladder. Alas, this song will be lodged uncomfortably inside you for some time. The Saturdays Not Giving Up (Fascination)      Reading this on mobile? Click here to view Listening back to Amy Winehouses Rehab has become especially poignant after her death. Knowing that we all could have tried to do more to help, her pained call of No no no has stopped sounding like an act of defiance and more like a cry for help. Similarly, I feel, we may look back on the Saturdays Not Giving Up with the benefit of hindsight and think – if only you had.
