Papua New Guinea police barricade anti-fraud squad head's office, say reports
https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/apr/18/papua-new-guinea-police-barricade-anti-fraud-squad-heads-office-say-reports
Papua New Guinea police officers have reportedly barricaded the office of the head of an anti-fraud squad after a court threw out his suspension, in a dramatic escalation of a long-running corruption saga engulfing the country’s leadership. The complicated and controversial fraud investigation in PNG, which involves serious allegations against the prime minister, Peter O’Neill, last week again erupted with a series of high-profile arrests and sackings. Anti-corruption investigators were suspended and accused of actions that “in any normal situation would be sedition,” after arresting the attorney general, a supreme court judge, and the prime minister’s senior lawyer last week. On Saturday the PNG police commissioner, Gari Baki, suspended Matthew Damaru and Timothy Gitua, respectively the head and deputy of National Fraud and Anti-Corruption Directorate (NFACD), for insubordination. On Monday afternoon a court ordered a stay on all current and further suspensions of NFACD staff, Guardian Australia was told by the head of anti-corruption TaskForce Sweep, Sam Koim. However, shortly afterwards the ABC reported officers loyal to Baki had chained Damaru’s office shut and weren’t letting anyone near it. Baki had accused Damaru and Gitua of running investigations “covertly” and seeking arrest warrants from courts, which Baki said was against police procedure. “This was also done to frustrate and prevent me from exercising my powers as commissioner of police for the overall superintendence, efficient organisation and control of the force,” he said.   Related: Peter O'Neill 'surprised to hear' PNG child welfare law remains uncertified    Baki also accused the organisation of being “erratic and out of control”, the ABC reported. The suspensions had followed almost immediately the three high-level arrests last week, but Baki denied they were in any way connected. Supreme court judge Bernard Sakora, attorney general Ano Pala, and senior lawyer for O’Neill, Tiffany Twivy, have all been involved in court cases which in some way supported O’Neill’s efforts to keep the arrest warrant at bay. Last Monday Sakora was reportedly arrested and charged with corruption on suspicion of accepting a payment from a company linked to Port Moresby firm Paul Paraka Lawyers, to which O’Neill is suspected of authorising illegitimate payments of about $30m.  Sakora had also earlier this year issued the latest in a series of injunctions and court orders preventing police from arresting O’Neill under the 2014 warrant. Pala is believed by police to have misused public funds, according to the ABC. He had previously been arrested last year over allegations he interfered with their attempts to arrest O’Neill. Pala was installed as attorney general in 2014 after his predecessor was sacked by O’Neill in the fallout over the arrest warrant.  Twivy, who has represented prime minister Peter O’Neill in his legal efforts to hold off the 2014 warrant of arrest against him, was herself arrested and charged with perverting the court of justice last Monday. Twivy said a group of plain-clothed policemen bundled her into a car without identifying themselves, and took her to the fraud squad headquarters. She is considering seeking redress for injuries sustained in the arrest.   Related: Australia's ignorance about Papua New Guinea is a loss for both nations    “It’s my opinion that it can’t be a mere coincidence that the three of us who have taken steps adverse to Mr Koim and the two policemen in the last month have been arrested in the same week,” she told Guardian Australia. She labeled her arrest an abuse of powers, in both timing and substance. Twivy believed Taskforce Sweep and the two “rogue policeman” heading the NFACD were being secretly funded, and her arrest was an attempt to stop her cross-examining them in a court hearing scheduled for the following day. “There are shadowy unknown third parties funding policemen and an alleged anti-corruption body to do what they can to destabilise the government of the day and the police force,” Twivy said. “Anywhere else or in any normal situation that would be sedition. That is a question that has been put to Sam Koim, put to the policeman, and this was the first time we were going to have them in the witness box to answer this. It’s not lost on me [that] I was arrested the day before this final attempt to try and get the truth out there.” Koim labeled the accusations “ridiculous” but said he did not want to discuss it outside of a courtroom.  “It is up to them to prove it to the court,” he told Guardian Australia. Accusations he controlled Damaru and Gitua were “baseless,” he said. “They arrest people on the merit of their case. And it’s no secret Mr Damaru and Mr Gitua are members of the fraud squad and [Taskforce Sweep], so we work together on occasions,” he said. Koim said the arrested parties had cases to answer. “In light of all the circumstances and the chain of events … including the recent suspensions orchestrated, the answer is right there. It’s not an isolated incident. The court appreciated today those facts and gave the orders. Time and again the court has been ruling in our favour.” Koim has previously met with Australian members of government and said Australia was well-placed to consider sanctions against PNG, in response to O’Neill’s attempts to “undermine the rule of law”. In a statement on Friday, O’Neill said he would not allow the office of the prime minister to be “demeaned” or questioned “when they are false allegations, where there is no evidence of financial benefit or corrupt practices that has given anybody any financial benefit and set a very bad precedence for this country where for future prime ministers, anybody, any policemen will or can go and get a warrant on anything and simply arrest the prime minister”. Former prime minister Sir Mekere Morauta said O’Neill was undermining the integrity of the office.
