Tech won't solve the social media conundrum
https://www.theguardian.com/media-network/marketing-agencies-association-partner-zone/social-media-marketing
Youre at a social gathering, enjoying a gentle conversation with a few like-minded friends, when someone interrupts the flow with a crude attempt at promoting their business. Embarrassing situations like this tend to end the same way: everyone departs leaving the socially inept dullard talking to himself. Until recently, this is how many brands behaved in the social space; they simply didnt get it. They blundered in like over eager sales people and tried too hard to sell, turning people off. Today, the situation is different. Most brands see social media channels as online environments where customers and prospects can interact with them – without any heavy-handed sales techniques. Marketers refer to this affectionately as engaging with their followers. But in a world of spreadsheets and accountability is the softly, softly approach effective? Is engagement enough? Can creating branded content alone really help a business to sell more stuff, more often, to more people - which, after all, is the whole point of investing in marketing activity? On the one hand, social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter are a great way for a brand to discover who likes them (quite literally). But, on the other hand, the frustrating fact is that selling to these seemingly red-hot prospects seems to be a no-no in the social space. Sales is the life-blood of every business so a solution to this social conundrum needs to be found. The majority of marketers are turning to all sorts of social plug-ins, widgets and algorithms in an attempt to understand their audience better. Few, however, have considered a far more obvious approach – why not just ask them? People will quite happily provide personal details and preferences if they are asked in an appropriate way - and its this kind of data that enables a marketer to create more effective, one to one campaigns. Genuine empathy is key and the right tone is, of course, vital. And that certainly cant be replicated by even the smartest kind of algorithm. Well, not yet anyway.     . Photograph: .    Xanthos Christodoulou is creative planning director at Golley Slater London. This content is provided by the Marketing Agencies Association, sponsors of the agencies hub.
