The Guardian view on the changing terror threat
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/jul/07/the-guardian-view-changing-terror-threat
Nine years on from the 7/7 jihadist attacks in London and a year after the murder of Lee Rigby it is irresponsible to discount the possibility that something similar, perhaps something much worse, could happen again. Terrorism is a global reality, even though the overwhelming majority of terrorist incidents take place in countries far from and very different to Britain. Nevertheless, a terrorist danger exists in Britain too, and it is vital that the people of this country are properly and effectively guarded against it before it strikes. It is possible to construct a case that the terror threat here is as great as it ever was. The bloodshed in Syria has fostered the view that events are out of control. The military success of Isis in the Middle East inescapably raises the possibility that northern Iraq could become to this decade what Afghanistan was to the years before 9/11. The declaration of a new caliphate and the history-laden sermon delivered by its leader in Mosul last week are intended to reinforce a sense, in Iraq and worldwide, that epic struggles are in train. Against such a background, a single interview with a hotheaded British jihadist who threatens to raise the flag of Islam over Buckingham Palace inevitably feeds the perception that we are all at risk. Mondays vandalisation of the 7/7 memorial in Londons Hyde Park boosts that lurching uncertainty still further. This alarming background may seem to many to pave the way for increased vigilance and for new anti-terror powers. Right on cue, there has been a sequence of such proposals. Last weeks warnings in the United States have now been followed by tighter security check-in measures over phones and electronic devices on flights to the US, with the chairman of the Commons intelligence and security committee Sir Malcolm Rifkind warning of the extremists devilish technical skill in the black art of blowing airliners from the skies. Meanwhile, Sir Malcolms committee is also about to publish a report into the lessons of the Rigby killing that is expected to expose security failures in the monitoring of the killers and thus offer a platform for further pre-election anti-terror legislation. In addition, ministers are pushing once again for new legislation to track UK citizens phone usage, partly on the grounds of the anti-terror effort, partly in response to the Edward Snowden revelations and partly in response to a European court ruling that the UKs data directive is too sweeping. It is a loud official drumbeat, and it is getting ever louder. But the case is not unanswerable. On the contrary, it is vital, particularly at this point, to pause and consider three big questions about this latest drive towards further powers and precautions. The first is whether the terrorist threat is actually increasing to the degree that fresh powers and precautions are necessary. The second is whether, if further powers really are needed, these ones will actually be effective. The third is whether the powers and restrictions are properly proportionate to the rule of law. With the heightened atmosphere of a general election campaign almost upon us, the case for cool heads and measured thinking is especially important. So is the need for liberal and civil liberties voices to be given their say and treated with respect. In the party political context, this is a moment at which the Liberal Democrats have a special opportunity. If liberals can rise to the occasion, they will be in interesting company. YesterdayOn Monday, Sir Richard Dearlove, head of MI6 during the Iraq war, warned it was time to take a more proportionate approach and said ministers and the media were guilty of overstating the threat. The churning violence of events in the Arab world creates a big problem for the Middle East, he argued, but less so for the UK. The comments came a week after the new head of Americas NSA Michael Rogers counselled against exaggerating the damage caused by Snowden. Both sets of remarks are striking, timely and wise. The terrorist threat exists. No one disputes that. But the defence must be proportionate and productive – not the reverse.
