Today's media stories from the papers
https://www.theguardian.com/media/2013/nov/12/media-briefing-tuesday-12-november
Top eight stories on MediaGuardian     Christopher Graham said he was very concerned by reports of the scale of online eavesdropping, but stopped short of criticising the security agencies. Photograph: John Cassidy Photography    Information commissioner voices fears over scale of NSA surveillanceChristopher Graham says issues of national security cannot be allowed to overshadow concerns of legitimate public interest Theresa May: editors should recognise responsibilitiesHome secretary follows cabinet colleagues in criticising newspapers over stories based on Edward Snowden revelations News Corp reports $38m net profitRevenue in Rupert Murdochs news division decreases $171m, with Australian newspaper revenue falling by 22%David Dimbleby achieves tattoo ambition at 75Veteran TV presenter is filmed getting tattoo of scorpion, saying You are only old once … it is a dream come trueBBC undermining local papers, says Theresa MayHome secretary says corporation claims activities such as online are opening up new markets, when in fact it is dominating themSun editor: journalists have gone back to knocking on doorsDavid Dinsmore says the Bribery Act has made paying for stories harder, so reporters are back to more traditional methods of newsgatheringHyenas pursued Blunkett, hacking trial toldTapes seized from private investigator Glenn Mulcaire featuring messages left by former minister played to Old BaileySri Lankan editors criticise UK press reformsIn letter to David Cameron, editors say royal charter will serve as blueprint to those seeking to control the press Top comment on MediaGuardian Greeces ERT TV station symbolises what is happening to the countryRichard Simcox: The closure of the state broadcaster by the coalition government is symptomatic of the brutal austerity being inflicted Todays headlines The Guardian David Dimbleby gets tattoo, aged 75. P5New Murder She Wrote is a mistake, says Angela Lansbury. P9Hyenas pursued Blunkett, hacking trial hears. P11Information commissioner airs fears at scale of NSA surveillance. P11Nadine Dorries apology over fee for Im a Celebrity. P16BSkyB could face Premier League premium. P25 Daily Telegraph Scientist fears Facebook can harm young brains. P2Theresa May: BBC is destroying local papers. P14Sri Lankan editors attack Camerons blueprint for control of press. P14Metal used in mobile phones could double risk of stroke. P16Nadine Dorries should register income from media work. P18Blunketts inner circle all knew about affair. P19 David Dimbleby: Ive had my first tattoo at 75. P19Editorial: BBC – Curb the corporation. P29BSkyB fought to revive Champions League discussions. B1Comment: Falling value of BSkyB could attract Murdoch and other suitors. B2Rivalry to increase after BSkyB defeat. B3Analysis: Losing Champions League is a blow but BSkyB has bigger battle ahead. B6 Financial Times Singles day click frenzy as Chinas online shoppers smash records. P1Blunkett aides knew of his affair, hacking trial told. P4Why the Twitter launch left $1.5bn on the table. P11Luxury phones try to get smart. P12BSkyB shares fall. P14Skys the limit for game-changing BT. P21Boot is on the other foot for Murdochs. P21Twitter struggles to maintain its ground. P31Investors bet on Twitter as the next big thing. P32 The Times David Dimbleby gets tattoo at 75. P3Press charter encourages harsh regimes. P10Nadine Dorries says sorry for Im a Celebrity fee. P12Blunkett turned against friends he accused of leaks, trial hears. P17BBC puts democracy at risk by killing local newspapers, says Theresa May. P25Labour the top earners on TV. P25Sky falls in as BT celebrates Champions League victory. P45 The Independent MP Nadine Dorries broke MPs code of conduct by hiding her TV earnings. P7David Dimbleby gets his first tattoo aged 75. P8Blue Peter viewers to design a new sonic device for Doctor Who competition. P12Hacking trial hears David Blunkett tapes. P15Home secretary attacks BBCs online power. P15Shop sign used in TV series Lovejoy sold for five times its estimated price. P24BSkyB shares dive 11% following BTs Uefa deal. P56 i Doctor accused of kidnapping journalists in Syria walks free. P9Online BBC is threatening existence of newspapers. P9Blunkett branded press hyenas for stories on affair. P11After divorce, Rupert Murdoch finds happiness again at 82. P21On-air mammogram reveals news presenters cancer. P23BSkyB shares fall over BT Champions League deal. P41EE gives Cumbria broadband boost. P42 Hare quits Apex to keep Sages books. P42 Wall Street Journal Europe BSkyBs shares tumble after rivals soccer win. P18Cameras succumb to the smartphone juggernaut. P18Apple shows strength in Japan. P19Pegatrons Apple deal is mixed blessing. P19 Daily Mail Dimbleby gets a tattoo – at 75. P7Let press into family courts to uphold justice, says judge. P12Michael Grade: press charter is bonkers. P12Quentin Letts: Ah, London, what agreeable defamation laws it has. P20Why the John Lewis ad isnt the best Xmas tear-jerker. P23Christmas ad review. P23Metal in your mobile could double the risk of stroke. P29BT nets Skys football rights. P58Marquee deal for broadband. P59 Daily Express David Dimbleby aged 75 shows off his new tattoo. P1, 3, 12Rot in hell rage of Blunkett. P19Sky falls as BT bags £900m football rights. P79 The Sun Home secretary warns BBC local news websites are destroying regional newspapers. P2Old Bailey told David Blunkett seethed at press hyenas. P9Husband of Deal or No Deal winner accused of housing benefit fiddle. P10University Challenge pasted in a player after she went ill minutes before the end. P15David Dimbleby gets a tattoo at 75. P17American reporter who had a mammogram on live TV finds out she has cancer. P17MP Nadine Dorries refuses to reveal the size of her Im a Celebrity fee. P21Im a Celebrity coverage. TV Biz P1X Factor coverage. TV Biz P2Actress Sarah Parish blasts The X Factor. TV Biz P3 Daily Mirror Tomorrows Worlds Maggie Philbin recruited for Labour high-tech taskforce. P2Home secretary says BBC local news websites are destroying regional newspapers. P2David Dimbleby gets a tattoo. P7American TV reporter who had a mammogram live on TV finds out she has cancer. P7 Daily Star £200,000 X Factor ad. P2Blunkett fury at false claims. P14Live TV girl cancer hell. P19Ant  Dec to make sitcom. P31  Go to MediaGuardian 
