Twitter's redesign: is it turning into Facebook?
https://www.theguardian.com/media/2014/apr/10/twitter-facebook-redesign-difference-profile
Twitter have announced they are introducing a series of changes to the way their profile pages work, to help users create a whole new you. Some Twitter users have already transferred to the new format which includes tweet highlights and wide cover-images. The redesign closely resembles updates made by Facebook in 2013.  Can you spot the difference between the Facebook and Twitter profiles of these prominent tweeters?     Zac Efron's twitter and facebook profile pages. Can you spot the difference? Photograph: Guardian/Facebook/Twitter       Gilberto Gil's profile on twitter and facebook: which is which? Photograph: Guardian/Facebook/Twitter       John Legend has already started using the new Twitter format - but which one is it? Photograph: Guardian/Facebook/Twitter       Facebook and Twitter profiles of American rock band Weezer Photograph: Guardian/Twitter    New users to the site will immediately start using the new format with the following changes being introduced for current users over the coming weeks:  Profile photos will be larger and a header photo, which users can customise, will stretch across the top of a profile. Popular tweets that have created the most engagement will appear larger to make them easier to find. Pinned tweets are an additional feature that will allow users to put their favourite tweets at the top of their profile so that followers can see what youre all about Filtered tweets allow users to choose what they would like to view on others profiles: tweets, tweets with photos and videos or tweets with replies  People have taken to Twitter to complain that the new design is a move to look and operate more like its competitor Facebook.    For those of you who hate Facebook, well you might hate Twitter too, because its now going to look exactly the same. http://t.co/J1rkon95c5 Lucidica  (@Lucidica) April 9, 2014      @BBCTech Disgusting. Twitter is turning into Facebook and taking away everything that it makes it good. Nick Turner (@NickTurner13) April 8, 2014      @guardiantech if we wanted @twitter to look and feel like @facebook then most wouldnt be using @twitter ! Havenswift Hosting (@havenswifthost) April 8, 2014    What do you think about the new design? Do you have equal love or hate for Facebook and Twitter? If you use them, tell us why. Is it to show the world who you are? Or is all social media the same?  Share your thoughts in the comments below and well move a selection above the line.
