What one woman, two cats and a surprise bedfellow taught me about social work
https://www.theguardian.com/social-care-network/2016/mar/18/one-woman-two-cats-surprise-bedfellow-social-work
I feel privileged to have started my career as a social worker. It has given me great satisfaction over the years and many unforgettable memories. One such memory takes me back to the 1980s, a time best known to many for the miners’ strike, shoulder pads and spiral perms. But, to me, it was a time best known for my visits to an elderly woman called Elsie. I was only a few years into my social work career when I first visited her with the then director of public health. She was a feisty lady who’d started work in a mill at the age of 14 and had the view that when she retired she was entitled to spend the rest of her life in bed.  The 1948 National Assistance Act enabled somebody to be forcibly removed from their home and put into care for their own safety, which is what we had to do because Elsie had got herself into such a state that her health was at risk. The hairs on her body had grown through her underwear and, because she had decided not to get out of bed, the bed was in an indescribable state. She was also a cat lover and the cats never went outside – I’m sure you can imagine the consequences.    Related: When a mother walked out on her kids, I stayed up all night to save the family    So for her own safety Elsie did go into the care home but also, very unusually in those days, we got her back out again. We also managed to return home her two cats, Tin Ribs and Ginger, who had been accommodated under the act, which allows you to provide temporary care for pets. Getting the residential staff on board was critical. They hadn’t met anyone like Elsie, who was a bit of a handful and became particularly exuberant at the home’s Christmas party after a glass of sherry. They usually provided long-term care and had not returned anybody home before. But when they realised how important it was for her to get back to her cats and her own bed, they helped her to understand what she needed to do to make that happen. We all made compromises to clean her up and get her proper care.   Following her return home, Elsie and I had an understanding. I would write to her to tell her I was going to visit and she would clean up the house. It would never be very clean, but there would be a bottle of disinfectant ostentatiously displayed on the sideboard for my benefit.  So for some time I continued to visit and she continued to clean. Many of our interviews took place with Elsie in her bed, the two cats sleeping on the covers, and me perched on a chair. She would let me inspect her flat, and we would discuss how she was doing. But on one occasion when I was visiting Elsie, who was in bed, a foot appeared from under the covers beside her head on the pillow. It was a male foot, with a sock and a toe sticking out.    Related: Social care staff, share your stories    Elsie had taken a lodger and they shared the same bed! Who knows what the nature of the relationship was – that was not my business, but some years later only the lodger and I attended Elsie’s funeral. My time with Elsie taught me a lot about social work and vulnerable people. I learned it was important to be straightforward about the worries we had about her and the power the authorities had to intervene. I also listened hard to what was really important for Elsie and what she wanted to achieve. It was then possible to negotiate a way forward. This skill has stood me in good stead ever since in both practice and in management.  It was also vital that everybody involved understood what we were trying to achieve, and that only by working together would we succeed. Most importantly, the plan had to be driven by what Elsie wanted.  You certainly get to meet some interesting people in our work. And for me, my memorable moments with Elsie will always remain. This new series aims to show what working in social care is really like. If you’d like to write for the series, email socialcare@theguardian.com Join the Social Care Network to read more pieces like this. Follow us on Twitter (@GdnSocialCare) and like us on Facebook to keep up with the latest social care news and views.
