
  




Stocks Retreat After Grim China Data, Oil Plummets - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Stocks Retreat After Grim China Data, Oil Plummets



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/23CSZpE




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Stocks Retreat After Grim China Data, Oil Plummets

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 11:24 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



NEW YORK —  Global markets got February off to a cautious start on Monday following a rocky January, with stocks and oil falling in the wake of weak manufacturing reports around the world.U.S. and European stocks fell, after disappointing euro zone manufacturing data dovetailed with the fastest contraction in China's giant factory sector in over three years, and U.S. manufacturing sentiment remained weak.Those surveys showed the new year began much as the old one ended, with too much capacity chasing too little demand. Economists were expecting a similar picture from the United States."My main question is will the U.S. economy be able to continue to grow just through the services sector when the manufacturing sector is having such a tough time?" asked Rabobank U.S.-focused economist Philip Marey.The Dow Jones industrial average fell 58.9 points, or 0.36 percent, to 16,407.4, the S&P; 500 lost 7.6 points, or 0.39 percent, to 1,932.64 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 10.26 points, or 0.22 percent, to 4,603.69.Oil prices, the other major factor influencing markets this year, also fell. U.S. crude  was down nearly 5 percent to $31.96, resuming a downtrend that had been interrupted of late on hopes for production cuts. Brent  dipped as well, falling 3.7 percent to $34.65 a barrel.Still, Brent was up from Friday and more than 30 percent higher than its 12-year low of almost $27 less than two weeks ago.It was under pressure Monday as a senior OPEC source told a Saudi Arabian newspaper it was too early to talk about an emergency meeting of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to stem the persisting drop in prices amid a world glut.Crude jumped last week after Russian energy officials said Saudi Arabia had made proposals to manage output and was ready to talk.Friday's surprise move by Japan to cut interest rates to negative levels continued to provide support for bonds. Japanese government bond yields hit record lows, and bets the European Central Bank will cut its rates again next month also sent German five-year bond yields  to all-time lows. [GVD/EUR]In the United States, however, the bond market was lower, with the 10-year benchmark yield  rising to 1.95 percent.In currency markets, the yen had steady at around 121.20 to the dollar  and 131.40 to the euro . Friday's BoJ move set off its biggest one-day fall - roughly 2 percent- in over a year. [FRX/]Elsewhere, oil-rich Canada's dollar fell half a percent against its U.S. counterpart  after the weak economic data dragged oil prices  down from overnight highs as lofty as $36 a barrel. Fellow oil exporter Norway's currency slipped 0.3 percent versus the euro.MSCI's 46-country All World share index, which lost over 6 percent last month in its worst start to a year since the height of the global financial crisis in 2008, was in the red, slipping 0.1 percent.Chinese stocks slipped more than 1 percent after the weak data strengthened calls for more stimulus.(Additional reporting by Marius Zaharia, Karolin Schaps and Jemima Kelly; Editing by Bernadette Baum)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















