
  




Bangladeshi 'Tiger' Desperate to Earn Olympic Stripes - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Golf|Bangladeshi 'Tiger' Desperate to Earn Olympic Stripes



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/23DfFWE




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Golf 
Bangladeshi 'Tiger' Desperate to Earn Olympic Stripes

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 4:36 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



SINGAPORE —  While former world number one Adam Scott dismisses the value of an Olympic gold medal, Bangladeshi golfer Siddikur Rahman is unequivocal about its importance to the wider world ahead of the sport's return at the Rio Games later this year.The self-taught world number 310, dubbed the 'Bangladeshi Tiger Woods' at home, has never competed at one of golf's four major championships, meaning the Olympics, should he qualify, would easily stand out as the pinnacle of his career."Wow, yes, It would be very exciting for me if I can get in," the 31-year-old told Reuters during a rain delay at the recent Singapore Open."Obviously I have a target for that, I just need to play better to get in. It would be a very good impact for my country to get into it."The top 15 players in the world rankings on July 11 will qualify automatically for the Aug. 5-21 Games but only four can come from any one country.The remainder of the 60-man field will be determined by the rankings, with a maximum of two players from each country that does not already have two or more players among the top 15.Siddikur currently sits 58th on the list, just inside the qualification spots.EMERGING MARKETSBangladesh's Olympic record is far from spectacular since it first sent athletes to the 1988 Seoul Games following invites from the International Olympic Committee (IOC).The country of 160 million is frequently described as the largest to never win an Olympic medal, with sport too expensive for most and a low priority for many others.Siddikur, though, is hoping to change that and the "village boy" who started playing at eight with a homemade iron and was 15 before he got his hands on an authentic set of clubs, could become the first Bangladeshi to qualify for an Olympics."Maybe I could be the first. I hope I will get in, let's see, there is a long way to go. If I can play my own game, I think it won't be a problem," the former child caddy said after he missed the cut in Singapore.Australian Scott, a three-time winner of the Singapore title and also the 2013 U.S. Masters, has been dismissive of the first Olympic golf event since the 1904 Games, describing it as an exhibition that did not merit a place.For Siddikur, the first Bangladeshi to play and win on the Asian Tour, the opportunity is a welcome one for both him and his peers from other emerging golf markets."Philippines, Sri Lanka, more countries have a chance to get in," said the golfer, who rose to prominence as a teenager when he used his homemade seven iron to win a tournament for caddies in Dhaka."I would say its a great thing because golf, all over the world we play golf, so it should be in the Olympics. It is a really good decision to put it in," he said, before pausing to imagine the impact of winning gold."I don't know what will happen. The Olympics is something all over the world. An Olympic gold medal is just 'wow', I couldn't imagine what would happen."Honestly, if I can get into the Olympics that is the one achievement, if I can play good that is another."(Editing by John O'Brien)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















