
  




Greek Theater Lowers Curtain on Political Violence Play as Censorship Row Builds - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Europe|Greek Theater Lowers Curtain on Political Violence Play as Censorship Row Builds



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/202uFJc




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Europe 
Greek Theater Lowers Curtain on Political Violence Play as Censorship Row Builds

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 7:54 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



ATHENS —  The cancellation of a Greek National Theatre play critics had attacked as glorifying convicted killers has ignited a debate on political violence and art censorship in the country that began staging theater around 2,600 years ago.The "Nash Equilibrium", a fictional political thriller loosely based on Greece's deadly November 17 guerrilla group, is  seen through the prism of a militant.It made headlines when it was called off in late January after two weeks of performance on the National Theatre's experimental stage. It followed protests by relatives of victims  and by conservative lawmakers.But demonstrations by actors and free-speech supporters outside the theater in central Athens led to one final performance on Sunday night."Today's performance is a victory which belongs to all of us," one of the actors said through a loudspeaker, before free tickets for the play were handed out to dozens of people waiting outside the theater.The five actors, who performed without their original props and costumes, were welcomed on stage to strong applause.Freedom of expression is a particularly sensitive issue in crisis-hit Greece, which has a history of political violence, including from November 17 and during the 1967-1974 rule by a military junta.November 17 killed 23 people, among them U.S. and British diplomats, before being dismantled in 2002. Those arrested and convicted have been sentenced to multiple life times in prison.Relatives of the group's victims said the play, which quoted excerpts from a book by imprisoned November 17 member Savas Xiros, gave him "a chance to become likeable" and was aimed at his release."Mr Xiros said he paid his debt ... Will he also bring back the fathers of our children?" asked Conservative MP Dora Bakoyianni in a tweet. Her husband Pavlos was gunned down by November 17 militants in 1989.The U.S embassy said in a tweet that "art should not be censored" but added that it joined those who questioned "whether the public should fund the art of a terrorist".On Thursday, the theater's artistic director canceled the last four performances of the play, saying in a statement that it had caused "more pain than room for thought" and had led to "threats", without disclosing further details.But supporters said cancelling the play, which also quoted Nobel-prize writer Albert Camus' "Les Justes" and texts by political theorist Hannah Arendt was an act of censorship. The director and actors said they respected the victims' relatives.The National Theatre's board issued a statement opposing the decision. "Art should host the voices of those who wronged and those who have been wronged, otherwise none of Shakespeare's plays would have ever been performed," it said.Prime Minister's Alexis Tsipras' leftist Syriza party called the cancellation of the play a "sad development"."We share the sensitivity and fully stand by the relatives of the victims," said Culture Minister Aristides Baltas adding that the ministry's role was not to intervene. "The blind reactions to one theatrical performance insult this social sensitivity and the memory of the victims."(Editing by Jeremy Gaunt.)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















