
  




Ex-IMF Chief Rato Faces Trial Over Spanish Credit Card Use - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Ex-IMF Chief Rato Faces Trial Over Spanish Credit Card Use



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1nzFSEJ




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Ex-IMF Chief Rato Faces Trial Over Spanish Credit Card Use

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 12:33 P.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



MADRID —  Spain's High Court said on Monday it would open a trial against former International Monetary Fund (IMF) chief Rodrigo Rato and dozens of other people alleged to have misused credit cards for personal expenses while at Spanish lender Bankia.Rato, a former Spanish finance minister and one-time leadership contender for the ruling center-right People's Party (PP), has denied wrongdoing in the case and in other investigations related to Bankia.The announcement of Rato's trial comes after a series of corruption investigations into other individuals closely linked to the PP, which lost its outright majority in December's general election partly as result of public exasperation over a slew of graft scandals.Last week in Valencia police arrested 24 people, including a former regional head of the PP and many others involved in the party, following a corruption investigation into public work contracts.In the expenses case, prosecutors have been pushing for a four-and-a-half year prison sentence for Rato, Bankia's chairman shortly before it needed a state bailout in 2012. Reuters was not able to contact a lawyer representing Rato.Bankia's stock market listing, which took place under Rato's watch in mid-2011, is also being investigated by the High Court, though there is no decision yet whether that case will go to trial.Many ordinary Spaniards lost money after their shares plummeted in value following the bank's bailout less than a year later at the height of the euro zone debt crisis.The court also said Miguel Blesa, Rato's predecessor at Caja Madrid, which merged with other banks to form Bankia in 2011, would go on trial, along with 64 other people.The Spanish prosecutor has called for a six year prison sentence and 9.34 million euros in damages for Blesa, a friend of former PP Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar. Blesa also denies any wrongdoing.The court statement showed that between 2003 and 2012, during the tenure of both Rato and Blesa, former board members and executives at Caja Madrid and later Bankia spent just over 12 million euros on company credit cards."A sort of compensation system was established that lacked any legal protection," the court document said of the scheme.When news of the scandal first emerged two years ago, the purchases, a mix of the mundane and the extravagant -- from cinema tickets, groceries and flowers to jewels, holidays and clothes -- fueled Spaniards' anger against graft as they suffered through a deep recession.Corruption has been Spaniards' second-biggest concern since early 2013, official polls show, behind only the country's sky-high unemployment rate.($1 = 0.9189 euros)(Reporting by Angus Berwick and Rodrigo de Miguel; Editing by Sarah White and Mark Potter)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















