
  




U.S. Envoy Makes First Visit to Kurdish-Held Syrian North - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Middle East|U.S. Envoy Makes First Visit to Kurdish-Held Syrian North



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1NM4AqT




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Middle East 
U.S. Envoy Makes First Visit to Kurdish-Held Syrian North

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 12:36 P.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



BEIRUT/ROME —  A senior U.S. official has visited Kurdish-controlled northern Syria in what appeared to be the first declared trip to Syrian territory for several years by an official from U.S. President Barack Obama's administration.Brett McGurk, the U.S. envoy to the coalition against Islamic State, said his weekend trip aimed to review the fight against Islamic State, the jihadist group that controls swathes of Syria and Iraq.The Syrian Kurds have established control over wide areas of northern Syria since the country erupted into civil war in 2011, and their YPG militia has become a major partner in the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State.But the trip, the first of its kind to Kurdish-held Syria, may anger neighbouring Turkey, which is alarmed by the growing sway of Syria's Kurds, fearing it could fuel separatist sentiment among its own Kurdish population.It follows the exclusion of the main Syrian Kurdish party, the PYD, from Syria peace talks, in line with Turkish wishes.McGurk posted photos of the trip on his Twitter feed, including a shot of a cemetery where he said he "paid respects to over 1,000 Kurdish martyrs" from the battle of Kobani waged by the YPG, with U.S.-led air support, against Islamic State.A Syrian Kurdish official said McGurk landed at a Kurdish-controlled airport being used by U.S. military helicopters for logistics and deliveries. The airport at Rmeilan is currently being developed, the source said, and supplies are brought in "according to need".Fred Hof, a Syria expert with the Atlantic Council think tank, said to his knowledge this was the first declared visit to Syria by a U.S. government official since the U.S. embassy in Damascus was closed in February 2012.The United States has supported the opposition to President Bashar al-Assad, who it says has lost the legitimacy to rule, and has rejected cooperation with the Syrian government in the fight against Islamic State.U.S. ties with the Syrian Kurds have grown deeper despite the concerns of NATO ally Turkey, which views the Syrian Kurdish PYD party as a terrorist group because of its links to the PKK, which is waging an insurgency in Turkey.McGurk was received by Kurdish officials, including the prime minister of one of three autonomous regions, or cantons, the Syrian Kurds have set up in northern Syria.In a statement posted on Youtube, Akram Hasso, head of the administration of Jazeera province, said McGurk's delegation was 17 strong and included representatives of France and Britain.Hasso said McGurk's delegation met representatives from all three Kurdish regions of northern Syria, who "discussed the planes and the new steps towards obtaining a political recognition".A U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said McGurk's visit "and the discussions he had are in keeping with the Special Envoy's efforts to continue looking for ways to increase coalition pressure on ISIL".The YPG is an important part of the Syria Democratic Forces alliance formed in October, which has received U.S. military support to fight Islamic State. The SDF also includes fighters from other ethnicities including Arabs and Turkmen.McGurk said he had "discussed next steps in Syria campaign" with "battle-tested and multi-ethnic anti-ISIL fighters".(Writing by Tom Perry; Editing by Dominic Evans, Larry King)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















