
  




CEO McCall Says Committed to easyJet and Battle With Ryanair - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|CEO McCall Says Committed to easyJet and Battle With Ryanair



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Klz8Vk




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
CEO McCall Says Committed to easyJet and Battle With Ryanair

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 10:09 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



VENICE, Italy —  The chief executive of British airline easyJet dismissed speculation that she was set to quit, telling Reuters on Monday she was committed to the battle with bigger rival Ryanair which has started encroaching on its turf.easyJet and Ryanair have been locked in a battle for supremacy in the low-cost market for years, with the Irish airline recently upping the stakes by moving to more primary airports and improving its customer service.That has prompted fears that Ryanair could become a more direct competitor for easyJet and its Chief Executive Carolyn McCall, a threat she dismisses by saying Europe is big enough for the two of them."I’m staying at easyJet," she told Reuters in an interview at Venice airport where she was opening a new aircraft base. "I love easyJet. I really like what I am doing and I am here to stay. No intention to leave."Some media reports had suggested last year that she had been in the running to take the top job at British retailer M&S;, a vacancy now filled by M&S; veteran Steve Rowe.easyJet, Europe's second biggest low-cost carrier, and larger rival Ryanair, have grown to dominate travel in Europe over the last decade, putting pressure on long-established or "legacy" carriers such as British Airways, Air France-KLM and Lufthansa on shorter routes.easyJet has sought to appeal to more business customers in recent years, introducing allocated seating on flights and setting out plans for a loyalty scheme for its frequent fliers.GROWING CAPACITYAt the same time Ryanair has moved to fly to more primary airports and improve its customer service over the last two years. Both airlines plan to grow capacity, or the number of seats flown, at about the same rate of 7-8 percent in 2016."I don’t think they are more of a competitor, I think our competition remains the legacy carriers," McCall said of Ryanair when asked about the competitive situation compared to two years ago. "There’s a lot for both of us to go for."Ryanair upgraded its passenger volume forecasts on Monday by 1 million to 106 million, which some analysts said could be bad news for easyJet’s passenger growth.easyJet and Ryanair only compete on 6 percent of routes between the same airports, unchanged since 2011, said McCall."There’s a lot of profitable growth to come and we know exactly where we’ll put our aircraft to drive profitable growth," she said, adding that about three-quarters of the growth would come from adding frequencies to existing routes and connections between existing destinations, with the balance from new destinations.The growth plan and the future challenge were enough to keep McCall hooked at easyJet, she said, where she took over in 2010.McCall said opening an aircraft base in Venice fits with the airline’s strategy of attracting increasing numbers of business passengers who will now be able to take early morning flights from their companies in the industrialised zones around the picturesque city to business meetings elsewhere in Europe.(Reporting by Sarah Young; Additional reporting by Conor Humphries; Editing by Adrian Croft)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















