
  




Nokia Patent Sales Forecast From Samsung Deal Hits Shares - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|Nokia Patent Sales Forecast From Samsung Deal Hits Shares



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KkLa1g




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
Nokia Patent Sales Forecast From Samsung Deal Hits Shares

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 5:12 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



HELSINKI — Nokia said it had settled a lengthy patent dispute with South Korea's Samsung on Monday, but investors were disappointed by the financial terms of the deal.Nokia's shares fell more than 10 percent after the Finnish firm said the Samsung deal would lift patent unit Nokia Technologies' sales to around 1.02 billion euros, or $1.1 billion, in 2015, from 578 million euros in 2014.The patent business is set to become a smaller part of Nokia after its proposed 15.6 billion euro takeover of French network gear rival Alcatel-Lucent, whose shares fell by 11 percent following news of the Samsung patent deal.Samsung's stock was up by 1.1 percent.Nokia shares have fallen since the announcement of Alcatel-Lucent deal last April, partly due to the dilution of the patents business and also due to worries about integration.The annualized run-rate for its patent unit following the Samsung deal is now about 800 million euros, Nokia said. This compared with average analysts' forecasts for the unit's 2016 sales of about 900 million euros."There have been expectations that Nokia could make more money with their patent portfolio than (rival) Ericsson.. This outcome did not support that... Estimates will be revised," said Nordea analyst Sami Sarkamies, who has a "hold" rating on Nokia.Sweden's Ericsson, which recently signed a license deal with Apple, has a patent sales run-rate of about 1.2 billion euros.In 2014, Nokia sold its once-dominant phone business to Microsoft, leaving it focused on telecoms network equipment while retaining a large portfolio of handset patents.Samsung and Nokia entered into a binding arbitration in 2013 to settle additional compensations for Nokia's phone patents for a five-year period starting from early 2014.Nokia added it expects to receive at least 1.3 billion euros of cash during 2016-2018 related to its settled and ongoing arbitrations, including the Samsung award.Nokia currently has a similar dispute with LG Electronics. It is expected to start talks over a new contract with Apple in the coming years.Some investors criticized the way Nokia had communicated the settlement, while expressing surprise over the scale of the share price movement given the relatively sizes of Nokia Technologies to its networks business."The company should be more explicit, investors are left wondering for example on the Technologies (unit's) actual topline forecast for 2016," said Juha Varis, a fund manager at Danske Capital."I'm mostly surprised over the share reaction. Considering the increasing significance of (the) network business for the stock, this is a very strong movement," Varis, whose fund owned 0.08 percent of Nokia shares as of end-December, said.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















