
  




EU, U.S. Fail to Strike Data Transfer Pact Deal by Deadline - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|EU, U.S. Fail to Strike Data Transfer Pact Deal by Deadline



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1nzMbZ2




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
EU, U.S. Fail to Strike Data Transfer Pact Deal by Deadline

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 10:48 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



BRUSSELS —  European and U.S. negotiators have missed a deadline to agree a key data transfer pact, the European Commission said on Monday, with talks snagged over a new oversight role and the options for European citizens to seek redress over data privacy violations, sources familiar with the talks said.While talks are continuing and a deal could be clinched in coming days, national data protection regulators from across Europe are poised to begin meetings on Tuesday to start restricting trans-Atlantic flows of personal data."There have been constructive but difficult talks over the weekend," said a spokesman for the European Commission. "Work is still ongoing, we are not there yet, but the commission is working day and night on achieving a deal," he said.European Union data protection law says companies cannot transfer EU citizens' personal data to countries outside the bloc deemed to have insufficient privacy safeguards -- like the United States.Cross-border transfers are used in many industries for sharing employee information or when consumer data is shared to complete credit card, travel or ecommerce transactions.Firms such as Facebook and Google rely on transferring and analyzing reams of users' data to sell targeted advertising, for example.U.S. officials and American executives have grown increasingly worried about the consequences of not having a new deal in place, despite a flurry of high-level talks in Brussels over the past few weeks.FLYING HOMESome U.S industry representatives, believing they had exhausted their case, flew home this weekend after bringing their pitch directly to regulators across Europe.A U.S. industry source said a deal is "on the table" with what U.S. feels is strongest offer yet, but that Europe apparently still wants to see more.Negotiators had hoped to reach a deal before Věra Jourová, the EU's Commissioner for Justice, Consumers and Gender Equality reports to the European Parliament on Monday evening.Revelations of mass U.S. surveillance programs in 2013 prompted the European Commission to demand that "Safe Harbour" a framework which more than 4,000 companies have relied upon to avoid cumbersome EU data transfer rules, be strengthened.The Safe Harbour framework was struck down by an EU court last year over concerns about U.S. Internet surveillance, leaving companies in legal limbo.National data privacy regulators meet in Brussels this Tuesday and Wednesday to decide whether they should restrict the use of alternative measures as well, such as binding corporate rules and model clauses between companies.U.S. officials met a group of EU data protection authorities last week to discuss the future of Safe Harbour, said a spokeswoman for the French regulator, which chairs the group.The U.S. side proposed improving oversight of the new data transfer framework by creating an ombudsman to review decisions.The European Commission is pushing for the ombudsman to have the authority to make findings on U.S. surveillance as opposed to just fielding complaints from European citizens and data protection authorities, the person familiar with the talks said.(Reporting by Julia Fioretti in Brussels and Dustin Volz in Washington D.C.; Writing by Eric Auchard; Editing by Keith Weir)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















