
  




UCI Promises Tough Response to Motorized Doping Scandal - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Cycling|UCI Promises Tough Response to Motorized Doping Scandal



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KlrTNd




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Cycling 
UCI Promises Tough Response to Motorized Doping Scandal

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 9:03 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



By Julien PretotPARIS - International cycling authorities have promised to step up testing for mechanical doping after an electric motor was found in an elite rider's bike, signaling decisive action after struggling for decades to combat illegal drug use.Stewards at the world cyclo-cross championships found the motor on Sunday in the bike of Belgian teenager Femke Van den Driessche, the first such find during a competitive race."We will be testing more bikes, more often," International Cycling Union (UCI) boss Brian Cookson said following the discovery. "Our message to those choosing to cheat is that we will catch up with you sooner or later."For decades, cycling authorities did little to combat the use of performance-enhancing drugs. It was only with the intervention of outside agencies in the 1990s that the culture and effectiveness of testing begin to change, culminating in Lance Armstrong being stripped of his seven Tour de France titles in 2012.Cookson said the UCI was "trialing new methods" to catch mechanical dopers, but declined to elaborate. The organization has previously used X-rays or dismantling bikes to look for the tiny motors.They can be hidden in the downtube, seat-tube or hub and drive the back wheel to give riders a possible speed boost of about 4-5 kilometers (2-3 miles) per hour for up to an hour. A tiny battery can be activated from an easily disguised button on the handlebars.Random controls for mechanical doping have been carried out since it first surfaced in 2010. Canadian rider Ryder Hesjedal was scrutinized in 2014 when his rear wheel continued to spin furiously after he crashed at the Tour of Spain, though no motor was found.Last year, grand tour champion Alberto Contador had to refute allegations that he used a motor-assisted bike during the Giro d’Italia after changing bikes ahead of tough climbs, and on last year’s Tour de France, eventual champion Chris Froome also had his bike checked.Van Den Driessche, whose brother is currently banned for doping -- using EPO -- denied wrongdoing, saying the bike  belonged to one of her friends. Details were vague about whether it was used for racing or just seized from the team compound.Patrick Lefevere, manager of the Etixx-Quick Step team, called for her to be suspended for life.UCI regulations on 'technological doping' were introduced last year, carrying a minimum suspension of six months and a fine of up t 200,000 Swiss Francs ($196,000).Asked what he thought of mechanical doping during last year’s Tour de France, FDJ coach Frederic Grappe said it "could be worse that (traditional) doping", a point of view shared by many in the peloton.The Italian manufacturer of Van den Driessche's bike, Wilier Triestina, threatened court action."Our company reserves its right to take legal action against the athlete and any person responsible for this serious matter to safeguard the reputation and image of the company," Wilier managing director Andrea Gastaldello said in a statement.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















