
  




EU Warns Britain Any Membership Deal Will Be Hard Won - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Europe|EU Warns Britain Any Membership Deal Will Be Hard Won



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1nzioQ7




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Europe 
EU Warns Britain Any Membership Deal Will Be Hard Won

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 9:03 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



LONDON —  The European Union warned Britain on Monday that any breakthrough in talks on a better membership deal would have to be hard-won after senior officials were given an extra 24 hours to iron out differences.Prime Minister David Cameron and European Council President Donald Tusk left a dinner on Sunday saying they had failed to reach a deal, and the two sides were somber in their assessments of how the negotiation stood on Monday.Eurosceptic British lawmakers said the divergence was being played up to make an eventual agreement seem like a triumph, but EU officials poured some cold water on what Britain had called a "significant breakthrough" on measures to curb immigration."It's difficult," said a source close to the negotiations.  "The talks are going on non-stop, both negotiating teams are already in Brussels for further talks."The two sides have indicated they want a deal agreed by EU leaders at their Brussels summit in mid-February, enabling Cameron to call a referendum on EU membership as early as June.Cameron's spokeswoman told reporters: "There is more work to do in all four areas, more work in some areas than in others."But she said a "significant" agreement had been reached with the European Commission, the EU executive, allowing Britain to suspend some payments to migrants from the bloc for four years immediately after the referendum.That would go some way to appeasing critics of EU membership in Cameron's party, but a spokesman for the Commission warned it would need to be agreed by the leaders of all 28 countries."It is not enough for the Commission and Council lawyers to agree; this is a process that is run 'at 28', and the Commission works for all 28 member states of the union," said Margaritis Schinas.HIGH STAKESCameron has demanded reform in three other areas. He wants Britain excluded from the EU goal of "ever closer union" and protected against moves by the 19 countries that share the euro currency to impose rules by majority vote on London. He also seeks to empower groups of national parliaments to block EU legislation.The stakes are high. The referendum will not only determine Britain's future role in world trade and affairs, but also shape the European Union, which has struggled to maintain unity over migration and financial crises, by ripping away its second-largest economy and one of its two main military powers.Some Eurosceptics have branded the negotiation a waste of time."Don't be fooled, again, by Cameron's ongoing charade," Paul Nuttall, deputy leader of the UK Independence Party, said in a statement, predicting the prime minister would return in 24 hours with a "deal".But there are plenty of areas where EU countries have concerns about Britain's demands and, if and when agreement is found, there will still be tussles over some details.Still up for grabs is how long the so-called 'emergency brake' on welfare payments to migrants will be in force, how many countries would have to agree in order to to block EU legislation, and how to enforce protection for London's financial industry, among others.Officials say they hope that a draft package will be circulated to capitals by Tusk on Tuesday.(Editing by Kevin Liffey)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















