
  




Putin Ally Issues Video of Opposition Leader in Sniper's Cross-Hairs - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Europe|Putin Ally Issues Video of Opposition Leader in Sniper's Cross-Hairs



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Sn8vlW




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Europe 
Putin Ally Issues Video of Opposition Leader in Sniper's Cross-Hairs

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 8:24 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



MOSCOW —  One of Russian President Vladimir Putin's most loyal allies has stirred fear among Kremlin critics by releasing a video showing opposition leader Mikhail Kasyanov in the cross-hairs of a sniper's rifle.The video, released on social media by Ramzan Kadyrov, the Kremlin-backed leader of Chechnya, follows weeks of increasingly hostile rhetoric toward the liberal opposition from the former rebel fighter, who has called Putin's opponents "enemies of the people" who deserve to be tried for sabotage.The video, which Kasyanov, a former prime minister, said he regarded as "incitement to murder", was issued weeks before the first anniversary of the murder of Boris Nemtsov, another prominent liberal opposition leader.Police have charged a group of Chechen men with that killing, one of whom Kadyrov praised for his patriotism after the murder. But Nemtsov's allies say the mastermind has not been found and that a cover-up is underway.They want Kadyrov questioned. Kadyrov, 39, has said the idea that he is a suspect in the Nemtsov killing is nonsense.Kasyanov, who once served as prime minister under Putin only to become one of his biggest critics in opposition, said he hoped the Russian president would speak out against Kadyrov. The Kremlin said it had not seen the video but would look into it."I assess Kadyrov's move as incitement to murder a state or civil society leader," Kasyanov, who is chairman of the opposition PARNAS party, told the Ekho Moskvy radio station. "It's a straightforward criminal offense."His lawyers would "probably" contact the police to ask them to press charges against Kadyrov, he said, complaining that pro-Kremlin forces had been waging a vicious campaign against the liberal opposition for the past two years which had included threats and poisonings.Russia, which is in the grip of a severe economic crisis, faces parliamentary elections in September.Kadyrov's video purported to show Kasyanov, 58, in the French city of Strasbourg, where the Chechen leader wrote that the politician had gone to get money for the Russian opposition.Last month Kasyanov addressed the Strasbourg-based Council of Europe and urged it to prepare a report into Nemtsov's murder. The liberal opposition is often accused of being directed and funded from the West, charges it denies."Anyone who did not understand will get it," wrote Kadyrov.The sniper's cross-hairs also briefly hovered over Vladimir Kara-Murza, a 34-year-old opposition activist who thinks someone tried to poison him to death last year for his political activities.(Additional reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin; Editing by Gareth Jones)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















