
  




Energy Shares Drag FTSE Down From Three-Week Highs - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Energy Shares Drag FTSE Down From Three-Week Highs



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KRD1fO




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Energy Shares Drag FTSE Down From Three-Week Highs

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 10:12 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



LONDON —  Britain's top equity index retreated from three-week highs on Monday, with commodity shares falling after a factory survey in China, a major consumer of metals and oils in the world, disappointed investors.The blue-chip FTSE 100 index closed 0.4 percent weaker at 6,060.10 points, after falling to an intra-day low of 5,993.84 points. The index hit a three-week high in the previous session, but is still down more than 3 percent since the beginning of 2016 on China-related concerns.The latest survey showed activity in China's manufacturing sector contracted at its fastest pace in almost three-and-a-half years in January, missing expectations and marking the sixth straight month of factory activity contraction. [ID;nL3N15G199]"With a week heavy on both macro and corporate data, it's all about PMI readings today and the manufacturing sector has not exactly given much to cheer about," said Brenda Kelly, analyst at London Capital Group."The FTSE started well but has run out of steam at 6,100, led by the energy sector as oil ... once again flounders."The UK oil and gas and mining indexes fell 1.7 percent and 0.6 percent respectively after crude oil prices slumped about 4 percent and key industrial metals prices also weakened.Shares in BP and Royal Dutch Shell fell 2.6 percent and 1.4 percent respectively, tracking weaker oil prices and after Exane BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank cut their target prices for the stocks.Among miners, Rio Tinto, Glencore and Anglo American fell 1.0 to 1.7 percent.A sharp decline in metals prices in the past months mainly on growing concerns about their demand in China, the world's top consumer, has lowered the weight of mining stocks in Britain's benchmark index.In late 2010, 12 miners in the FTSE 100 had a weight of about 15 percent, against only seven remaining miners that have a weight of 3.6 percent now.The FTSE 350 mining index is currently worth around 73 billion pounds ($104 billion), in terms of the combined market capitalisation of the companies in the index, down from around 320 billion pounds when it hit the record high in May 2008.Financial services group Prudential was also among the top faller, with its shares dropping nearly 3 percent following the retirement of its executive director Michael McLintock. He will succeeded by Anne Richards later this year, subject to regulatory approval.In positive territory, communications services company BT rose 1.9 percent after posting its best revenue growth for seven years in the latest quarter, thanks to strong performance in consumer broadband.(Additional reporting by Sudip Kar-Gupta; Editing by Toby Chopra)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















