
  




When Trump Tells Supporters Not to Donate, They Mostly Listen - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|When Trump Tells Supporters Not to Donate, They Mostly Listen



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/23CRyHR




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
When Trump Tells Supporters Not to Donate, They Mostly Listen

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 1:45 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



NEW YORK —  Donald Trump likes to boast to his supporters that he's so rich he doesn't need outside money to pay for his presidential campaign. His fans seem happy to oblige him, according to financial disclosures released on Sunday.The New York businessman's quest to become the Republican party's presidential nominee has attracted massive crowds but only a trickle of donations, the disclosures filed with the U.S. Federal Election Commission show. He raised just $2.6 million from donors in the last three months of 2015.Three quarters of that money came from sales of merchandise like baseball caps bearing his campaign slogan "Make America Great Again," while only about $540,000 came from individuals giving more than $200.Most of his Republican rivals have raised far more. His nearest rival, Senator Ted Cruz, raised $20.5 million, while former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, who was once the front runner but has fallen sharply in the polls, raised $7 million.Yet Trump still leads in every national poll as voters in Iowa prepare to gather for the country's nominating contest on Monday.The bulk of the cash Trump is using to fund his presidential run comes from $12.6 million in loans he made to his campaign in 2015.Some of that money has gone right back to his businesses: His biggest campaign expenditure in the fourth quarter of 2015 was the $826,590 he paid TAG Air, Inc, which runs his fleet of private aircraft, to shuttle him between campaign stops and his homes in New York and Florida.Trump's second largest expenditure was $478,000 to Wizbang Solutions, a printing and design firm, followed by $411,000 his campaign paid to a consulting company that collects signatures to get candidates onto states' election ballots.He's the only billionaire in race, although a few of his competitors are millionaires. Supporters across the country often say his financial independence appeals to them because they believe he can't be bought by special interest groups.Trump's financial reports show his fundraising isn't the only area that sets him apart from the other candidates.Trump spent $6.9 million during the last three months of 2015. His distant rival for the Republican nomination, the retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, spent $27 million. Cruz spent $15.5 million.And the man now seen as the most plausible establishment alternative to Trump, Florida Senator Marco Rubio, spent $14.8 million in the fourth quarter. That's about $2 million more than Trump spent in all of 2015.(Reporting By Emily Flitter in New York; Additional reporting by Jonathan Allen in Washington; Editing by Robert Birsel)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















