
  




Greek Grandmother, Fisherman Among Nobel Peace Nominees - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Middle East|Greek Grandmother, Fisherman Among Nobel Peace Nominees



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1nzMJOm




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Middle East 
Greek Grandmother, Fisherman Among Nobel Peace Nominees

By REUTERSFEB. 1, 2016, 10:51 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



ATHENS —  "What did I do? I didn't do anything," asked Emilia Kamvisi, an 85-year-old grandmother from the Greek island of Lesbos, when she heard she'd been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize.Kamvisi's flash of fame came after she and two friends aged 89 and 85 were photographed bottlefeeding a Syrian baby last autumn, as they helped refugees who had survived the treacherous boat journey from Turkey.Four months later, she is among three people nominated for the Nobel prize to symbolically represent the "behaviour and attitude of Greece, organisations and volunteers towards the huge refugee crisis".Fisherman Stratis Valiamos, who has rescued scores of refugees from drowning, and Hollywood actress Susan Sarandon, who spent Christmas helping refugees in Greece, were also nominated by Greek academics and the Hellenic Olympic Committee.Thousands of people, including all lawmakers, can make nominations, which must be postmarked no later than Feb. 1. The $1.2 million award will be announced in October.The Norwegian Nobel Institute does not publish names of nominees, but Nobel watchers have said former U.S. spy agency contractor Edward Snowden and peace negotiators in Colombia have also been nominated.Last year, Greece was the main gateway into Europe for more than a million people fleeing war, persecution and poverty in countries like Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan.On the island of Lesbos, new menus and signs are in Arabic and cafes are full of refugees charging mobile phones. Bright orange life jackets cover parts of the shoreline.Kamvisi, herself the daughter of refugees, said the scenes reminded her of life under Nazi occupation."We saw people crying in the boats, people leaving their homes, people sleeping in the streets," she told Reuters.Greece, stretched to its limits after years of economic depression, has struggled to cope with the refugees. Locals and volunteers like Kamvisi and 40-year-old fisherman Stratis Valiamos fill the void."People say 'you're a hero,' but this isn't heroism, it's the normal thing to do" said Valiamos."When you're fishing and a boat is sinking next to you and they're screaming for help, you can't pretend to not hear them, he said.In October, a shipwreck where more than 240 people were rescued took place among "a sea of dead bodies," he said. To make the journey, the refugees must be leaving even more horror behind, he said."No one wants to leave their home, to take a suitcase and five babies and walk for five months and get on a plastic boat," he said.(Editing by Katharine Houreld)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















