
  




New Bag Helps Laptop Pass Airport Security - The New York Times














































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Bag Helps Laptop Pass Air Security



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Bag Helps Laptop Pass Air Security



On the Road 
By                     
 JOE SHARKEY
 
JULY 1, 2008




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








For years at airport security checkpoints, passengers have heard the  refrain, almost a dirge: “Laptops must be removed from their cases and placed on the belt.”Get ready for a  change. The Transportation Security Administration has given the go-ahead for passengers to use  newly designed carry-on bags that will let them  pass through security without having to take their laptops out for the X-ray inspection.Kip Hawley, the agency’s  director, told me Monday that the T.S.A.  would  accept the new laptop cases as soon as they come on the market.Two of the biggest luggage manufacturers — Pathfinder Luggage and Targus —  say they are rushing to produce the new “checkpoint friendly” laptop cases and expect  them to be available by late September or early October.Two problems with the existing laptop cases are that security officers have difficulty seeing inside them with X-ray equipment, and many of the cases are so crammed with extra gear  —  power cords, a mouse and the like  —  that  the computer is obscured.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The new cases  include either a fold-down section in a bigger briefcase or a stand-alone protective sleeve that contains no extra clutter and can be readily viewed through the scanner.More than a half-dozen luggage manufacturers, among about 60 that initially responded to a T.S.A. request for proposals about three months ago, have submitted prototypes  for testing at checkpoints at three airports: Dulles, outside Washington; Austin-Bergstrom in Texas; and Ontario, near Los Angeles.The agency says that more than a quarter of all air travelers carry laptops through security.Along with having to remove shoes, the requirement to take a laptop out of its protective case has long rankled business travelers, who worry about damage to exposed computers as well as potential loss in the pileup of various travelers’ possessions on the other side of the X-ray station.Mr. Hawley, meanwhile, has often said that confusion at checkpoints is itself a security problem. Designing laptop cases that can improve customer service while keeping security at a high level is a way to better ensure a “calm and predictable” checkpoint environment, he said.“Threats have a hard time hiding in a calm environment,” he said. “Chaos is great camouflage.”Mr. Hawley said the agency had been working with various manufacturers to develop the new luggage designs. He predicted that various new laptop cases that conform to government requirements would be in wide use by the holidays in December.“On a conference call with industry representatives, I said that the T.S.A. will not be your gatekeeper on this,” Mr. Hawley said. “It all depends on how fast you can get to market. We won’t slow you down.”Ron Davis, the executive vice president of Pathfinder Luggage, said that his company had just started producing  its two new cases at a plant in the Philippines. He said both had been tested at checkpoints to ensure that they met government specifications.
Photo







Credit
            Chris Gash        


“They don’t want anything obscuring the view of the laptop,” he said. “In our case, the material is nylon and foam, and the X-ray machine will see right through that.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Pathfinder is making two models but plans others. One is a briefcase in which the attached laptop holder is exposed when the case is unzipped. The other is a wheeled carry-on with a removable laptop case.Mr. Davis estimated that the briefcase version would  sell for  $100 to  $150 and the wheeled version for  $150 to  $200.Targus, the largest maker of cases for laptops and notebook computers, is about to begin production at factories in China of four new models of checkpoint-compatible bags, said Al Giazzon,  the vice president for marketing.“We’ve got to produce a lot of them,” he said. “We’re currently scheduled for a late September or early October delivery of our first bags.”Among the bags Targus is producing is a backpack design. Mr. Giazzon said. He said that retailers were already clamoring for the bags, which will cost from $39 for a basic model to about $100 “for our corporate series, for heavy-duty travelers.”Mr. Hawley said that the T.S.A. has deliberately  avoided formally certifying various manufacturers’ bag designs.“Everybody is aware that the process of the government certifying a piece of security equipment involves a lot of time and red tape,” he said.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Instead, manufacturers were encouraged to come up with designs that would pass muster, and perhaps adopt a universal slogan or logo that says, “This bag is checkpoint-friendly,” he said.Mr. Hawley said he did not expect that the new laptops would create undue confusion after their introduction, since security officers would be well informed about them.To make sure the cases are easily identifiable, the T.S.A. said in its request for proposals sent to manufacturers in March that bags should be designed with “self-evident features,” including an absence of buckles, pockets or zippers.Manufacturers were also told that they could label the bags as “checkpoint friendly,” or use similar terms, but that they could not state nor imply that the bags were certified or approved by the T.S.A. or use a T.S.A. logo on them.It will be immediately apparent if a laptop case  is not properly designed for unobscured visual inspection because it will not give security officers a clear X-ray image, Mr. Hawley said.   The case and laptop  will be removed from the belt for a close look by security officers, he said.Mr. Davis said that passengers who are forced to take a laptop out of its case and rerun it through the X-ray equipment will, in itself,  encourage manufacturers to ensure that  “checkpoint friendly” cases really are.“If a customer buys the new case and sends it through security and the security officer said, ‘Sorry, this doesn’t work,’ then you’ve got a very upset customer,” he said.

E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on , on page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Bag Helps Laptop Pass Air Security.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage









FREQUENT FLIER 

An Etiquette Expert vs. the Annoying Seatmate
JULY 1, 2008









Memo Pad
JULY 1, 2008


























On the Road
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.








                                Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice            
MAR 30








                                Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers            
MAR 23








                                Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures             








                                PreCheck Expansion Plan Raises Privacy Concerns            








                                In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty            






See More »








Related Coverage






FREQUENT FLIER 

An Etiquette Expert vs. the Annoying Seatmate
JULY 1, 2008













Memo Pad
JULY 1, 2008









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















