
  




Skipping the Body Scanner and Taking Brusque Treatment - The New York Times






































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Opt Out of a Body Scan? Then Brace Yourself



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Opt Out of a Body Scan? Then Brace Yourself



On the Road 
By                     
 JOE SHARKEY
 
NOV. 1, 2010




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








HAVING been taught by nuns in grade school and later  going  through military boot camp, I have always disliked uniformed authorities shouting at me. So I was unhappy last week when some security screeners at O’Hare International Airport in Chicago started yelling.“Opt out! We got an opt out!” one bellowed about me in a tone that people in my desert  neighborhood in Tucson usually reserve for declaring, “Rattlesnake!”Other screeners took up the “Opt out!” shout. I was marched from the metal detector lane to one of those nearby whole-body imagers, ordered to take everything out of my pockets, remove my belt and hold my possessions up high. Then I was  required to stand still while I received a rough pat-down by a man whose résumé, I suspected, included  experience at a state prison.“Hold your pants up!” he ordered me.What did I do to deserve this? Well, as I approached the checkpoints, I had two choices. One was a familiar lane with the metal detector, so I put my bag on that. To my right was a separate lane dominated with what the Transportation Security Administration initially called “whole-body imagers” but has now labeled  “advanced imaging technology” units. Critics, of course, call them strip-search machines.I don’t like these things, and not just because of  privacy concerns or because of what some critics have asserted are radiation safety issues with some of the machines that use X-ray technology.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

No, I don’t like the fact that I have to remove every item from every pocket,    including my wallet and things as trivial as a Kleenex. You then strike a pose inside with your hands submissively held above your head, like some desperado cornered by the sheriff in a Western movie, while the see-through-clothes machine makes an image of your body.The T.S.A.’s position is that anyone can “opt out” of a body scan for reasons of privacy or whatever, but will then be subjected to a thorough physical pat-down and careful search of belongings.
Photo







Credit
            Chris Gash        


In my case, I had been routinely using a normal metal detector checkpoint, when I was ordered to switch lanes and instead go to one of the new machines. I said I would prefer not to,   given that my carry-on bag, laptop and shoes were already trundling along the regular machine’s conveyor belt, out of sight. That’s when the shouting started.As of Monday afternoon, the agency had not responded to several requests for comment on this. Last week, the agency did tell me that there were 317 of the advanced imaging technology machines now in use at 65 airports around the country.About 500 should be online by the end of the year, the agency said, and  another 500 are expected to be installed next year. Ultimately, the  agency  plans to  have the new machines replace metal detectors at all of the roughly 2,000 airport checkpoints.Meanwhile, both passengers and security screeners  are making  accommodations, and I acknowledge, change is a challenge. But hey, security folks, could we please  start communicating better about the procedures,    preferably without shouting or insulting our intelligence?Bruce Delahorne, a marketing executive who flies frequently, said he was also recently going through a standard metal detector  at O’Hare  —  no body imager in sight  —  when the old rules abruptly changed.Mr. Delahorne said: “They had one of the T.S.A. staff announcing loudly:  ‘Take everything out of your pockets. If you have a wallet, take it out. A handkerchief, out.’ I asked the guy,  ‘Can you explain the reason for the new process?’ He said there was nothing new. ‘We have always done this.’ ”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Well, no they haven’t, as you and I and Mr. Delahorne all know. Mr. Delahorne said he thought, “O.K., I get it. This guy is reading from the card, not talking to me.”So, Mr. Delahorne said, “I did what they told me to. But on the other side of the metal detector, I said to another screener,  ‘Could you explain to me why the procedure is now different at this airport, like having to remove a wallet that never set off the metal detector?’ And he said,  ‘No, no. The process has always been the same, at every airport.’ ”Mr. Delahorne said he was perfectly willing to comply with all procedures to ensure good security. He just wondered whether some of them were being made up on the spot. “For me,” he said, “the issue is, who’s in charge here and what are the rules?”

E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on November 2, 2010, on page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Opt Out of a Body Scan? Then Brace Yourself.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story






















On the Road
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.








                                Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice            
MAR 30








                                Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers            
MAR 23








                                Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures             








                                PreCheck Expansion Plan Raises Privacy Concerns            








                                In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty            






See More »







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















