
  




Squabbles Under the Big Tent - The New York Times




























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Week In Review|Squabbles Under the Big Tent



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Week In Review |                    Schiavo to Social Security                
Squabbles Under the Big Tent

By ADAM NAGOURNEYAPRIL 3, 2005



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








COULD this be the same Republican Party that was on such triumphant display after President Bush's re-election just four months ago?Republicans and conservatives are quarreling over Congress's intervention in the Terri Schiavo case, and the rising influence of Christian conservatives. Some Republicans in Washington and statehouses are balking at federal tax cuts in the face of deficits or spending cuts, while a few are worried that the war in Iraq will lead to more foreign entanglements. Republicans are beginning to whisper in the past tense as they discuss Mr. Bush's signature second-term measure, the revamping of Social Security.Conservative commentators and blogs are even warning that Republican divisions could turn into turmoil once President Bush begins his fade from power. "The American right is splintering," the sometimes-conservative commentator Andrew Sullivan wrote in a column for The Sunday Times of London headlined, "Bush's Triumph Conceals the Great Conservative Crack-Up."In truth, a lot of this talk seems overstated. Even Democrats say that Republicans are in a more commanding position than any major party has been in at least a generation. The party has already scored legislative victories this year, including the bankruptcy bill, and remains in accord on the fundamental notions that have guided it since the Reagan presidency: from tax cuts to spending cuts to big investments in the military.Still, passions unleashed by events since Mr. Bush's second inauguration -- the right-to-live-or-die debate in the Schiavo case and the lagging support for the Social Security plan -- are testing the governing coalition of conservatives and Republicans, and putting its many wings and factions on display. And there's no reason to think things are going to get easier, as Mr. Bush and Congress turn to rewriting immigration laws and the tax code and prepare for midterm elections.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

"We're going through some evolution," said David Keene, chairman of the American Conservative Union. "And given the fact that 2008 is the first time in God knows how long that there's going to be an open shot at the presidential nomination, there is going to be a lot of debate in this party about what kind of evolution the Republican Party needs. Arguments on the question of government spending, how activist the government should be."Richard Norton Smith, a presidential scholar and executive director of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum in Springfield, Ill., called it "the maturity of the conservative majority, and with the majority comes this inevitable fracturing." Continue reading the main story







Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





"Any party in America that aspires to majority status invites a certain level of instability, because it's so complex and diverse a society," Mr. Smith said, adding: "The strains are there and they are profound."Gone are the days when the Republican Party could easily (if simplistically) be divided into social conservatives versus fiscal conservatives. There are libertarian Republicans, Christian conservative Republicans, moderate Republicans, Wall Street Republicans, balanced-budget Republicans, tax-cutting Republicans, cut-the-size-of-government Republicans, neoconservative Republicans supporting global intervention and isolationist Republicans who would like to stay at home.And the fault lines always seem to be shifting, depending on the issue. There are fiscal Republicans who are clamoring for rewriting Social Security because it reduces the size of government, and fiscal Republicans who abhor the idea because the Bush plan itself would cost so much money. To a large extent, this is the price of success. No longer does the spotlight focus on differences between Republicans and Democrats. What matters today are debates between Republican and Republican.The different strains are becoming increasingly apparent as Republicans contemplate life without George W. Bush. . "He's up against a case of classic second term-itis," said Kevin Phillips, an analyst who is a frequent critic of Mr. Bush. "Which means that members of his own party aren't paying a lot of attention to him."Mr. Smith argued that in many ways, Mr. Bush (with help from his political adviser Karl Rove) managed this jostling coalition of different views with as much as much skill as Roosevelt managed the New Deal coalition and for much the same reason: by the force of personality. What is going on now, Mr. Smith suggested, is that members of that coalition who had lived so peacefully in recent years are seeing an opportunity to expand their influence in the next chapter of American Republicanism.Some divisions are familiar, if now more brightly illuminated -- like the conflict between budget-balancers and tax cutters. But there are new splits as well, as reflected by the various separation-of-powers and federalism issues raised before Terri Schiavo died, when Congress passed legislation allowing a federal court to intervene in her case. It exposed differences of opinions even among stalwarts of the conservative movement: Dr. James C. Dobson, the founder of the evangelical group Focus on the Family, called the removal of Ms. Schiavo's feeding tube the "cold-hearted extermination of an innocent human life." But William F. Buckley Jr. wrote in National Review that it was wrong "to use the killing language," as he argued that Ms. Schiavo should be left alone.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Conflicts between social conservatives and limited-government conservatives had been academic simply because conservatives did not control the federal government. As it was, more than a few conservative Republicans had been uncomfortable with President Bush's push to amend the Constitution to bar gay marriage.Now, the influence of Christian conservatives has become a source of anguish for some Republicans, as they weigh the considerable contribution the Christian conservatives have made to Republican dominance against what some argue is a threat to party domination in the future."It is just out of sync in terms of what the Republican Party has been historically," said John C. Danforth, a former senator from Missouri. "Somehow we've got entangled with this gay issue and this Schiavo issue, and it's a distraction."But in fact some divisions seem less pronounced now, like the debate over the war in Iraq. "There are a couple of hundred Republicans who for ideological or business or grudge reasons oppose the war and almost all of them are a local phone call away," said David Frum, a former speechwriter for President Bush, speaking from his office in Washington.The party has achieved some big goals this year, including laws to limit class-action suits. At every turn, party leaders say, Democrats can be counted on to keep Republicans on the reservation, be it by choosing John Kerry as their presidential nominee or Howard Dean as party chairman. "I would say that Hillary Clinton is probably the most unifying thing the Republican Party has," said Stephen Moore, president of the Free Enterprise Fund, an antitax group.Finally, while Republicans might quarrel on the margins, it seems that they have what the Democratic Party says it is searching for as it recovers from the setbacks of the past three elections: A clear idea of what their party is about, whether they meet those goals or not."Republicans are tied together by a relatively coherent vision: They talk about small government, less taxes, small taxes," said Mr. Keene of the American Conservative Union. "That's not going to change." Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















