
  




Airline Screening Plan Wins Tentative Praise - The New York Times



































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Airline Screening Plan Wins Tentative Praise



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Airline Screening Plan Wins Tentative Praise

By SCOTT SHANEAPRIL 2, 2010



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON — Aviation security experts and industry officials said Friday that new screening protocols for air passengers coming to the United States were a marked improvement over an emergency plan that has required extra screening of every passenger from 14 countries since the attempted bombing of an airliner on Christmas Day.They said that the new system promised to bring more complete and timely threat information to bear on decisions about who should be prevented from boarding an airliner.But they also said that the impact of the changes on both the safety and convenience of air travel would not be evident for months.Administration officials who described the basics of the new protocols on Friday said they would allow fragmentary but specific intelligence on terrorist threats — like the characteristics of new recruits for Al Qaeda — to be matched against the list of passengers who were not on any watch list.Passengers whose personal data, travel histories and other details raise concerns would then be subjected to “secondary screening,” which can involve questioning, pat-downs and body scans.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the Nigerian man charged with trying to blow up the Christmas flight, was not given extra screening before boarding his flight in Amsterdam despite considerable evidence that he might pose a security risk.“These new measures utilize real-time, threat-based intelligence along with multiple, random layers of security, both seen and unseen, to more effectively mitigate evolving terrorist threats,” said Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security.Since January, Ms. Napolitano has participated in three aviation security summits, in Spain, Mexico and Japan, to consult with foreign counterparts about how to protect flights from terrorists. She said many other countries had stepped up security measures and intelligence-sharing since the near-disaster over Detroit.
Photo






Passengers waited to be screened and to pass through metal detectors in the main terminal of the airport in Frankfurt, Germany, in January.

Credit
            Ralph Orlowski/Reuters        


The new scrutiny will be applied to every passenger on flights from overseas bound for the United States, officials said. They said the number of people identified for secondary screening was likely to decline compared with the post-Christmas focus on everyone from the 14 “countries of concern,” but would probably be higher than the pre-Christmas average.The number of passengers chosen at random for extra screening will also increase, officials said.The Transportation Security Administration said people flying to the United States “may want to allow additional time to get through security” and  advised checking with airlines and airports abroad.Before  Dec. 25, airlines were given the no-fly list of people to be barred from flights altogether and a second “selectee” list of passengers to be subjected to more thorough screening. Those lists have been expanded considerably this year and now contain about 6,000 and 20,000 names respectively, officials said.The new system will send the airlines additional names of passengers not on either the no-fly or selectee list but identified as possible security risks because of intelligence about threats. Only the names of the passengers selected for extra screening, not the underlying intelligence, will be shared with airlines and foreign security personnel, officials said.Stewart Baker, who served as assistant secretary for policy at the Department of Homeland Security under President George W. Bush, said the new measures were a distinct improvement on the emergency policies imposed after the Christmas bombing.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“I do think it makes sense to look at people and not nationalities,” Mr. Baker said. He said he also thought the new plan promised to do a better job of applying fresh intelligence to preflight screening.“It’s an experiment, and we’ll have to see how it works,” said Mr. Baker, a Washington lawyer whose book on counterterrorism, “Skating on Stilts,” is scheduled for publication in June.Airline industry trade groups  criticized the country-based approach earlier this year, saying it failed to make efficient use of the extensive data that immigration and customs authorities in many countries already collect about air travelers.
Photo






Janet  Napolitano

Credit
            Ralph Orlowski/Reuters        


“This is a welcome and very important first step toward creating a more intelligent security system where we start looking for bad people, wherever they may live, rather than issuing blanket indictments of entire countries,” Steven Lott, a spokesman in Washington for the Geneva-based International Air Transport Association, said of the revised protocols.Civil liberties advocates had a cautiously positive reaction. Farhana Khera, executive director of Muslim Advocates, which had protested the blanket screening of citizens of mostly Muslim countries, said the new plan sounded better. She noted that the post-Christmas screening would not have singled out Richard Reid, the so-called shoe bomber of December 2001, who was a British citizen.“We are very pleased that the administration heard our message that effective policies should focus on suspicious behavior and legitimate leads, not national origin, ethnicity or religion,” she said.But in Europe, where privacy concerns have sometimes clashed with American counterintelligence efforts, the reaction was wary.“Passenger name records are behavioral data,” said Sophie in ’t Veld, a Dutch member of the European Parliament and advocate of civil liberties. “One of our main concerns has always been that this data not be used for data mining and profiling. Using behavioral data to look for patterns and making law enforcement decisions on that basis — if that is not profiling, then what is?”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Some members of Congress praised the new program but complained that they were not briefed on it in advance.“While this new policy is a step in the right direction, I hope to work with the White House on a more coordinated rollout in the future,” said Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi, the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee.The committee’s top Republican, Representative Peter T. King of New York, likewise called the new measures “a significant step forward,” but he criticized the White House for what he said was a pattern of failing to share information with Congress.A transportation security  official said Mr. King had been given advance notice of the changes and offered a classified briefing.

 Correction: April 9, 2010  
A picture caption on Saturday with an article about the response of aviation security experts and industry officials to new screening protocols for air passengers traveling to the United States referred incorrectly to the passengers shown inside the main terminal of the airport in Frankfurt, Germany. They were waiting to have their carry-on luggage screened and to pass through metal detectors. They were not waiting to check in their luggage.  



Nicola Clark contributed reporting from Paris.
A version of this article appears in print on April 3, 2010, on page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Airline Screening Plan Wins Tentative Praise.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage






Security Checks on Flights to U.S. to Be Revamped
APRIL 2, 2010
























Related Coverage







Security Checks on Flights to U.S. to Be Revamped
APRIL 2, 2010









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















