
  




Bush, on Road, Pushes Warning on Retirement Benefits Plan - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|Bush, on Road, Pushes Warning on Retirement Benefits Plan



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics |                    SOCIAL SECURITY: THE CAMPAIGN                
Bush, on Road, Pushes Warning on Retirement Benefits Plan

By RICHARD W. STEVENSONFEB. 4, 2005



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








GREAT FALLS, Mont., Feb. 3 - President Bush took his proposal for a new Social Security system on the road on Thursday with a stark warning to younger workers that the retirement program will go "bust" within four decades if it is not overhauled and with a call for his supporters to demand action from Congress.But a day after he made overhauling Social Security the centerpiece of his State of the Union address, Mr. Bush ran into a brick wall of opposition from Democrats in Washington and skepticism even from influential members of his own party in Congress, leaving him facing perhaps the toughest and highest-stakes legislative battle of his presidency.Mr. Bush made some gestures to bipartisanship as he traveled to Montana and North Dakota on the first day of a two-day, five-state swing intended to impress on voters and members of Congress a need for action this year on Social Security. But he showed no signs of backing down, even as he prepared to plunge into another partisan battle next week, over his call for a new effort to hold down government spending and cut or eliminate scores of domestic programs."I've heard all of the complaints -- and you'll hear a lot more -- how this is going to ruin Social Security," he said at his first stop, in Fargo, N.D. "Forget it, it's going to make it stronger."At a later stop here he said, "This is doable. It's just going to take some political will."In sketching out in his State of the Union address how he envisioned a new system working, Mr. Bush was trying to jump-start negotiations with Congress, reassure Republicans that he would give them political cover and win over at least a few Democrats, his aides and advisers said.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

But the response from within both parties on Thursday suggested that Republicans did not feel much safer politically and that Democrats had been emboldened to fight back. And it highlighted the difficulty Mr. Bush faces as he puts his political fortunes on the line in an effort to reshape an immensely popular and successful program whose problems, despite the dire picture he painted, are not projected to become acute for years.He tried to clarify his approach. Responding to questions from the audience here, he told the mother of a mentally retarded adult daughter that there would be no change to the disability portion of the system. Continue reading the main story







Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





But as economists and elected officials pored over what details were available of the president's approach to establishing individual investment accounts and ensuring Social Security's financial health for the long term, the White House still had not answered fundamental questions.Mr. Bush did not address whether or how the nation could afford to borrow the trillions of dollars that would be necessary over the next few decades to set up the accounts at a time of historically high levels of government and personal indebtedness. The White House has said its plan to phase in private accounts starting in 2009 would require more than $750 billion in additional government borrowing by 2015, and analysts said that in the decade after 2015, with the accounts fully up and running, the additional borrowing would run into the trillions of dollars.And although Mr. Bush repeated that raising the retirement age and other ways of cutting benefits would have to be part of the debate over how to meet his goal of making the system permanently able to pay all promised benefits, he provided no sense of which ones the administration might be willing to embrace. Over the next 75 years, the system faces a $3.7 trillion gap between what it can afford to pay and what current law promises to future retirees, and the establishment of personal accounts by itself would do nothing to eliminate that shortfall.Still, Mr. Bush got a rapturous reception from a carefully screened crowd of ticket holders at his first stop of the day, in North Dakota, a state he won easily in November.Flanked by people selected by the White House to bolster his argument and charts illustrating Social Security's problems, Mr. Bush sought to reassure one powerful constituency -- the elderly and people approaching retirement -- that nothing would change for them and that they would get all the benefits promised to them.For everyone else, he extolled the benefits of individual accounts as a way to build wealth for retirement. He went on to paint a bleak picture of the costs of inaction for younger workers, the group he is most counting on to give him the popular backing he needs to persuade Congress to join him in making the first fundamental changes to Social Security since it was created in 1935.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

"She's fine," he said, referring to Mary Bond, a 60-year-old woman who was on stage to discuss the issue with him at his first stop. Then he pointed to a group of college-age people in the audience at North Dakota State University and told them they were "not fine.""You got a problem," he said.He went on to urge younger workers to tell Congress of the need to act now, saying that Social Security would be "broke" by 2042.Mr. Bush's critics have accused him of deliberately exaggerating the threat to the current Social Security system by using phrases like "broke," "bust" and "bankruptcy."Social Security's actuaries project that the system will begin paying out more in benefits than it takes in through payroll taxes starting in 2018. Until 2042, under the projections, the system would be able to pay all the benefits promised under current law by drawing on its trust fund of government bonds.After that, it would be able to pay around three-quarters of the benefits promised by current law.But the fight is as much about the ideological struggle over the relative roles of government and market forces as it is about money.Interest groups have begun lobbying campaigns. David Certner, the chief lobbyist for AARP, the 35-million-member organization of middle-aged and older Americans that is going all out to block the plan, said his members had made hundreds of thousands of contacts by telephone and e-mail with lawmakers.USA Next, an organization that was instrumental in supporting Mr. Bush's Medicare plan, is planning full-scale combat with AARP. "We are going head to head to defeat AARP on this," said Charles W. Jarvis, the group's chairman.In traveling to North Dakota and Montana, Mr. Bush chose two states that he carried by large margins but that have Democratic senators -- two in the case of North Dakota and one from Montana -- who the White House thinks might be susceptible to pressure for a deal.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

One of those Democrats, Kent Conrad of North Dakota, flew in from Washington on Air Force One with the president, and afterward sounded more open to a deal with the White House than the Democratic leaders in the House and Senate have been, but only if Mr. Bush is willing to change his approach substantially.Mr. Conrad said there was a "kernel of a good idea in individual accounts.""But," he said, "I don't think it's a good idea if it's financed by massive borrowing, and I don't think it's a good idea if it's financed by a cut in benefits." Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















