
  




Security Bulletin Problem Creates Message Flood - The New York Times


























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Security Bulletin Problem Creates Message Flood



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Security Bulletin Problem Creates Message Flood

By ERIC LIPTONOCT. 4, 2007



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON, Oct. 3 — It started off early Wednesday as an innocuous request from a North Carolina businessman to the Homeland Security Department. He was responding to a daily antiterrorism bulletin by asking that it be sent to another e-mail address.But by afternoon, a programming flaw involving the “reply” function transformed that e-mail message into a flood of more than 2.2 million messages nationwide that clogged the e-mail accounts of government and private experts on domestic security, including the operators of an Illinois nuclear power station.Along the way, dozens of the recipients including federal employees, security officers and local officials exchanged lighthearted remarks about random topics like astrological signs and wine preferences.“It’s good here in D.C.,” Bill Miller wrote from the Office of Emergency Programs in the Treasury Department. “Just a bit muggy!”Such accidental mass e-mail exchanges often occur in the corporate world. But because this occurred in a network of government and private officials dedicated to preventing and responding to terrorist attacks, it generated disbelief and even anger.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“Urgent Request From D.O.D.” read the subject line of a Defense Department message sent at 10:42 a.m. “This is your Combating Terrorism Office for D.O.D. asking you to kindly stop now please.”Minutes earlier, an official of the Homeland Security Department had made a similar request.But the messages accelerated, continuing into the evening.John Polhemus, the plant security director at the Lanxess Corporation in Pittsburgh, said: “This has gone from an amazing pain in the neck to fifth grade. But that was my favorite grade.”A spokesman for the Homeland Security Department, Russ Knocke, said an error in the e-mail setup for the unclassified bulletin, the Daily Open Source Infrastructure Report, had led to the barrage.“Human error,” Mr. Knocke said, promising that it would be repaired by Thursday. “Very frustrating.”The report is a summary, largely based on news reports, on domestic security, like a report Wednesday on an Ethiopian who told an AirTran employee at Logan International Airport in Boston that he had explosives and was a member of Al Qaeda.Anytime anyone simply clicked on “reply” to the e-mail message that delivered the report, the new message was sent back to the department and then to all 7,500 list subscribers, resulting in the more than 2.2 million messages.“I’m a Sagittarius from N.Y.,” Sgt. First Class Michael L. Bass wrote from the Army Reserve Regional Readiness Command in Devens, Mass. “My only fault is that I am partial to V.O. on the rocks as I cut into my rare porterhouse!”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The accident raised questions among cybersecurity experts about how well prepared the Homeland Security Department is to defend against a cyberattack because it had trouble dealing with this computer problem.“It is a very simple fix,” said Marcus H. Sachs, a volunteer computer security expert at the SANS Internet Storm Center. “Do they not have anybody there that understands how to fix it?”The SANS organization monitors Internet spam attacks, and Mr. Sachs posted a notice for it about the problem.

A version of this article appears in print on , on page A27 of the New York edition with the headline: Security Bulletin Problem Results in Flood of Messages.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage





TEXT 

An E-Mail Chain Reaction
OCT. 4, 2007
























Related Coverage






TEXT 

An E-Mail Chain Reaction
OCT. 4, 2007









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















