
  




The Fed Jammed Your In-Box - The New York Times
































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|The Fed Jammed Your In-Box



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology |                    What’s Online                
The Fed Jammed Your In-Box

 DAN MITCHELLOCT. 6, 2007



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








THERE was a huge increase in e-mail spam last month, and the recent problems in the credit markets are partly to blame, says the computer security firm Symantec.“With the housing market taking a continued hit in September, in-boxes also took an increased hit as spammers exploited the recent market slowdown and subsequent interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve,” Symantec noted in its monthly State of Spam report (symantec.com). Much of the increase came from “spam directed towards homeowners and prospective homeowners offering refinancing, home equity loans, and actual houses,” Symantec said.Also behind the rise in spam last month, according to the e-mail security firm SoftScan, are college students. “We think their machines are infected before they get back to their campuses,” said Diego d’Ambra, SoftScan’s chief technology officer  (pcpro.co.uk).  Those computers are plugged into high-speed campus networks, and, unbeknownst to the students, are turned into “spam zombies.” Spam increased by 39 percent during September, SoftScan said (softscan.co.uk).Spammers use zombies to create vast networks, called botnets, that they use to send messages.Traditionally, botnets are created with scale in mind — the bigger, the better. But that may be changing, according to Mika Stahlberg, a security manager at F-Secure. He told Silicon.com that the economics may work better with more, but smaller, botnets. “These people don’t want to put all their eggs in one basket,” he said.CALL AND RESPONSE Elsewhere in the annoyance industry, a woman who complained that she received telemarketing calls from the satellite television provider DirecTV was unhappy with the response she got from  a company paralegal. The woman claimed she was on the company’s Do Not Call list, and should not have been called (consumerist.com). But, the paralegal, Rose G. Foley, responded in a letter that was reprinted on the blog that the calls were “not to sell you anything” but were “purely informational calls intended to remind you of your status and give you an opportunity to change your do-not-call preference.
Photo







Credit
            Alex Eben Meyer        


“Since our calls were informational in nature, and not telemarketing sales calls,” Ms. Foley added, they violated no laws.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Carey Greenberg-Berger of the Consumerist does not necessarily agree. “We would love to hear what the army of lawyers over at the F.T.C. and F.C.C. thinks of DirecTV’s deceptive and likely illegal interpretation of the  Do Not Call Implementation Act,” he wrote.The legality of any particular instance cannot be interpreted with certainty by a blogger or a newspaper columnist. But the Federal Trade Commission in 2005 fined DirecTV $5.3 million  for violating its telemarketing sales rule. “This is the largest civil penalty the F.T.C. has ever announced in a case enforcing any consumer protection law,” the commission said (ftc.gov).A DirecTV spokesman said the “informational” calls had ceased.DEATH WATCH There are 10 industries that are all but certain to die, or at least lapse into a coma, in the next 10 years, according to Geoff Williams of Entrepreneur.com. Among those on the list are record stores (unless you include Wal-Mart); gay bars (thanks to increased tolerance, “the very best of them will endure; the rest won’t.”); used-book stores; and pay phones. Oh, and telemarketing.MANAGING ROSIE The July 1943 issue of Transportation Magazine offered advice to businessmen on how to handle female employees. Road & Travel magazine has a copy on its Web site (roadandtravel.com). In all, there were 11 bits of advice. No. 3 was: “General experience indicates that ‘husky’ girls — those who are just a little on the heavy side — are more even-tempered and efficient than their underweight sisters.”DAN MITCHELL

Complete links are at nytimes.com/business.E-mail: whatsonline@nytimes.com.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page C5 of the National edition with the headline: The Fed Jammed Your In-Box.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage





















Related Coverage







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















