



Feeling Free to Take Shots at an Old Bully - NYTimes.com





























































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/business/07nocera.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/business, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular
Times Topics


 





Search All NYTimes.com










Business Day





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos



















Global
DealBook
Markets
Economy
Energy
Media
Personal Tech
Small Business
Your Money









Talking Business
Feeling Free to Take Shots at an Old Bully
 By JOE NOCERA

Published: October 7, 2006    






Sign In to E-Mail


Print


 Single Page



 









Reprints











A few days ago, two well-spoken executives from the computer security concern Symantec came by the office to complain about Microsoft. Lots of software companies have complaints about Microsoft, of course, but it’s not every day that one of them embarks on a multicity media tour to voice them. That got my attention.        



 Joseph Nocera's PodcastTimesSelect subscribers can now listen to additional thoughts from Joseph Nocera on his column.



Add to Portfolio

Microsoft Corp
Goldman Sachs Group Incorporated
McAfee, Incorporated

Go to your Portfolio »





They wanted to talk about Microsoft’s new operating system, Vista, which the company plans to begin shipping soon to computer manufacturers, and will introduce it over the next several months. It is the first big upgrade of Windows in five years, and it’s a pretty big deal. “Vista is important for the acceleration of growth for Microsoft,” said Rick Sherlund of Goldman Sachs, the pre-eminent Wall Street analyst covering the company. “It’s also important that they solidify the security of the operating system.”        
Important? How about critical. How many times in the last few years have we read about worms or viruses or “rootkits” penetrating the operating system and wreaking havoc? “The only real threat to the Microsoft franchise is security,” said Dan Geer, the chief scientist at Verdasys, a computer security company. Vista is supposed to be the proof of Microsoft’s newly found commitment to safe, secure computing.        
Yet the two Symantec executives were complaining that a new Microsoft security feature would cripple innovation in the computer security industry — while making it harder for companies like theirs to detect problems in the operating system. Another feature, they said, would confuse customers unnecessarily. They had other complaints as well.        
“I think their intent is to provide a more secure operating system,” said Sarah Hicks, a vice president in Symantec’s consumer products unit. “But the impact of what they have done is that there will be less customer choice, less access to the operating system for companies like ours, and the stifling of innovation.” Cris Paden, a public relations hand at Symantec, talked darkly about Microsoft’s desire to use its operating system to tilt the playing field to its advantage.        
When you hear talk like that, of course, you immediately think of Netscape or Real Networks, two companies whose products suffered once Microsoft put its version of first a browser and then a music player into Windows. The former example led to the Microsoft antitrust trial; the latter led the European Union to impose hefty fines on Microsoft while forcing it to come out with a version of Windows with the Media Player stripped out. (Microsoft is appealing the fines.) Both examples helped brand Microsoft as a company that ruthlessly used its operating system monopoly to crush rivals.        
Symantec, of course, knows quite well that that is the image such allegations conjure up — that’s why it made the media tour. And maybe that is what is happening here. But it sure doesn’t look that way to me.        
One of the supreme ironies of the computer age is that Windows, in addition to giving rise to thousands of software companies that have taken advantage of its many features, has also given rise to a $12 billion industry that takes advantage of — indeed depends on — its many flaws. “If Windows remains vulnerable, they sell more software,” said Adrien Robinson, a Microsoft executive who is part of the company’s security team.        
Obviously, if Microsoft somehow managed to make Vista completely immune from attack, there would be no need for companies like Symantec. But that is never going to happen, for two reasons. First, no matter how hard Microsoft tries, Vista will never be fully secure. Hackers have become extremely sophisticated, and as soon as companies figure out how to stop, or at least reduce, one problem, some new, unforeseen threat emerges.        
Second, that means Microsoft needs all the help it can get from the Symantecs and McAfees of the world. It’s simply not in Microsoft’s best interest to “Netscape” those companies. Not that it could if it wanted to; not in the wake of the antitrust trial — and especially the continued scrutiny by the European Commission, which has become very sympathetic to the complaints of Microsoft competitors.         1  2 Next Page » 




 






A version of this article appeared in print on October 7, 2006, on page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Feeling Free To Take Shots At an Old Bully.



 









Sign In to E-Mail


Print


 Single Page



 









Reprints















 


Get Free E-mail Alerts on These Topics









Microsoft Corp




Computer Security




Computer Software




Computers and the Internet





 








 

 







 

 

 

 



 

 

 



 

 









 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating










Home

World


U.S.


N.Y. / Region


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Opinion


Arts


Style


Travel


Jobs


Real Estate


Autos

Site Map
 
© 2011 The New York Times Company
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Corrections
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Work for Us
Advertise















campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/business/07nocera.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/business, position: Inv1

