
  




U.S. Adds Body Bombs to Concerns on Air Travel - The New York Times




























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





World|U.S. Adds Body Bombs to Concerns on Air Travel



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



World 
U.S. Adds Body Bombs to Concerns on Air Travel

By BRIAN KNOWLTON and NICOLA CLARKJULY 6, 2011



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story










WASHINGTON — Air security is expected to tighten, particularly for international flights into the United States, in light of recent intelligence that terrorists might be considering boarding flights with surgically implanted explosive devices, an American security official said Wednesday.The Department of Homeland Security has warned foreign counterparts of the potential threat, the official said, speaking on ground rules of anonymity.Efforts to smuggle explosives onto flights in undergarments and in printer cartridges have been traced back to the Al Qaeda affiliate in Yemen, but the official would not discuss the focus or origins of the latest intelligence.But one senior Homeland Security Department official said that the new intelligence originally surfaced about a month ago, had been vetted since then and appeared to be linked to Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. “The new intelligence indicated at least a fresh look at this possible tactic” by the terrorist group, this official said.A security expert, James J. Carafano of the Heritage Foundation, said it was important to know that it would be challenging to implant a bomb large enough to do serious damage, and difficult for a passenger to position himself in a plane to cause truly catastrophic damage.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Asked about the new concern, Jay Carney, the White House spokesman, said, “The idea that terrorists have been looking for other ways to circumvent security measures in order to target aircraft is not at all surprising.” He said that the latest information “did not relate to an imminent or specific threat,” and that the Unites States routinely sent reports about aviation security to other nations and the aviation industry.Greg Soule, a spokesman for the Transportation Security Agency, said the warnings to foreign security officials and to security agencies had been made “in recent days,” but he would not discuss them in detail.Representatives for several European airlines said that they had learned about the new security proposals only from a reporter’s inquiry.The American security official said that passengers, particularly on flights to the United States, should expect an increased security presence at airports. Security had already been raised in May after the killing of Osama bin Laden. The official would not say whether the new intelligence had come from materials obtained at Bin Laden’s compound in Pakistan.The bolstered security could include increased use of existing procedures, including behavior-detection officers and airport interviews, pat-down searches and the swabbing of skin or clothing to detect traces of explosive materials.“These measures are designed to be unpredictable, so passengers should not expect to see the same activity at every international airport,” Mr. Soule said.The scanning equipment used in airports is not designed to penetrate the skin and would not be able to detect implanted devices.But Mr. Carafano said that traditional security procedures, including explosives-sniffing dogs and machines, and agents studying passengers for nervous behavior, could go far to reduce such a threat.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“When dealing with explosives,” he said, “it’s very hard not to have some kind of residue that gets on your clothing.”The authorities have long been concerned about the possibility of a suicide attack involving implanted explosives.

In 2009, a militant wounded a Saudi prince by detonating a bomb that was thought to have been in his large intestine. The bomber died, and officials later determined that it was more likely placed in his underwear.

Brian Knowlton reported from Washington, and Nicola Clark from Paris. Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.
A version of this article appears in print on July 7, 2011, on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Adds Body Bombs To Concerns On Air Travel.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story































What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















