
  




Bomb Plot Changed Fliers’ Habits, Ounce by Liquid Ounce - The New York Times
































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Europe|Plot’s Legacy for Air Travel, Measured in Fluid Ounces



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Europe 
Plot’s Legacy for Air Travel, Measured in Fluid Ounces

By MATTHEW L. WALDSEPT. 7, 2009



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








Three years ago, when British authorities arrested 24 men they said were planning to bring down airliners by detonating bomb cocktails blended on board from seemingly innocuous liquids, security officials drew up measures to pre-empt such an attack even before they knew whether the bomb plot was workable.American officials immediately prohibited passengers from carrying on liquids, giving no advance warning to travelers arriving at airports on the first day of the new policy. Many had to throw out the shampoo, cosmetics and mouthwash in their carry-on luggage, or miss their flights.Security experts had long recognized the possibility of making a bomb from liquids. But in August 2006, when the arrests were made, security at passenger checkpoints focused mostly on detecting metals.Six weeks after the ban, American officials began allowing passengers to carry on one quart-size zip-top bag holding three-ounce or smaller containers. Officials said later that they had sent a staff member to a drugstore to confirm that products were available in such sizes.The Web site of the Transportation Security Administration   lists 58 countries, including Cyprus, Fiji and Britain, with similar rules. In fact, the rules are set on a metric standard; the American rule is now 3.4 ounces, equivalent to 100 milliliters.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The rules created sometimes bizarre distinctions; for example, Transportation Security officers told travelers that underarm deodorant that was colored was a solid and not subject to the limit, but that if it was clear, it could be considered a gel and thus subject to the restriction.Preparing for the first Thanksgiving after the ban took effect, Kip Hawley, then in charge of the Transportation Security Administration, answered a question about how his agency would treat dinner leftovers carried home by travelers, including ambiguous substances like cranberry sauce. “If you dump it out on the table and it retains its form,” he said, “it’s not a liquid, aerosol or gel.”Over time, some rules were relaxed. Travelers were allowed to buy beverages to carry on after being screened in the “sterile area” of the terminal. Breast milk, medicines and some other liquids are now allowed in what the security agency calls “reasonable quantities.”  Garbage bins for discarded or confiscated items have become a fixture at security checkpoints.Advice on how to pack liquids is still the main item on the Transportation Security Administration’s Web site, which also boasts of a drug seizure in August, in which an inspector took a closer look at a case of 12 bottles supposedly containing iced tea, brought as checked baggage by a passenger in Long Beach, Calif.; they were eventually determined to be filled with LSD, the agency said.

A version of this article appears in print on , on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Plot’s Legacy for Air Travel, Measured in Fluid Ounces.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















