
  




Former Sarkozy Protegee Launches Bid for French Presidential Primaries - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Europe|Former Sarkozy Protegee Launches Bid for French Presidential Primaries



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/220gBTi




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Europe 
Former Sarkozy Protegee Launches Bid for French Presidential Primaries

By REUTERSMARCH 8, 2016, 3:03 P.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



PARIS —  Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, a former campaign spokeswoman of ex-French president Nicolas Sarkozy, on Tuesday joined an already crowded race for the center-right's presidential nomination in a primary due in November.Known in the French media by her initials "NKM", the 42-year-old mother of two has distanced herself from the former conservative president in recent months, criticizing a stance she says panders to the far-right National Front.She will now stand against him and at least eight other candidates in the center-right primaries to be held in November, six months before the 2017 presidential election."These candidates only talk about themselves. They say 'I have changed', 'I'm new', 'I'll do better next time'. In this campaign, I want to talk about the French," she said on France's most-watched news bulletin, hoping to capitalize on International Women's Day on her status as a rare female high-flyer.Credited with only 9 percent of the votes in a BVA opinion poll on the primary last month, her more moderate views are likely to make her more of a nuisance for Alain Juppe, the former prime minister who has emerged as Sarkozy's main rival.Once dubbed "L'Emmerdeuse" - the pain in the neck - by former leader Jacques Chirac, she was expelled from the management of Sarkozy's Les Republicains conservative party in December, a move she denounced as a "Stalinist" purge.Kosciusko-Morizet, whose grandfather was an ambassador to the United States, trained as an engineer at the elite Ecole Polytechnique before joining the ENA post-graduate school, the traditional grooming ground for French politicians.Socially liberal, she supported gay marriage and has cultivated pro-environment credentials that make her popular with some center-left voters, but is also a fierce free-market advocate who wants to scrap the cherished 35-hour working week.A member of parliament for the Essonne area south of Paris, home to wealthy grain farmers, she failed to dislodge the Socialists from Paris city hall in 2014, as she struggled to shake off a reputation for haughtiness.Kosciusko-Morizet bolstered her critics' charges that she was out of touch when she told Elle magazine during the mayoral campaign that she thought the Paris underground train network was a "place of charm" with unexpected pleasures.The comments prompted a barrage of mockery from Parisians forced to brave the crowded and often foul-smelling Metro each day.(Reporting by Michel Rose; Editing by Andrew Callus and Gareth Jones)





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















