
  




Air Security Guide Inadvertently Posted - The New York Times

































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Air Security Guide Inadvertently Posted



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Air Security Guide Inadvertently Posted

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSDEC. 8, 2009



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON (AP) — The federal government improperly posted an internal guide to its airport passenger screening procedures on the Internet in a way that could offer insight into how to sidestep security.The document outlines who is exempt from certain additional screening measures, including members of the United States armed forces, governors and lieutenant governors, the mayor of the District of Columbia, and their immediate families.It offers examples of identification documents that screeners accept, including ID cards for members of Congress, federal air marshals and Central Intelligence Agency officials.Diplomatic pouches and certain foreign dignitaries with law enforcement escorts are not subjected to any screening, the document said, and certain methods of verifying identification documents are not used on all travelers during peak travel crushes.The Transportation Security Administration, which oversees airport security, said the document was outdated. The agency  posted it in March  on the Federal Business Opportunities site. A spokeswoman for the agency, Kristin Lee, said the posting was improper because confidential information was not protected.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

As a result, some Web sites, using widely available software, were able to uncover the  text of sections that had been blacked out for security reasons. On Sunday, the Wandering Aramean blog pointed out the document in a posting titled “The T.S.A. makes another stupid move.”According to the blog, the security agency posted a redacted version of the document but did not delete the confidential  information from the file. Instead of removing the text, the government covered it up with a black box. But the text was still embedded in the document and could be uncovered.The agency asked that the document be removed from the Federal Business Opportunities site on Sunday, but copies of the document — with the redacted portions exposed — remain posted on other Web sites not controlled by the government.Ms. Lee said a review was under way, adding,  “T.S.A. is confident that screening procedures currently in place remain strong.”The document also describes these screening protocols:¶Individuals with a passport from Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Libya, Syria, Sudan, Afghanistan, Lebanon, Somalia, Iraq, Yemen or Algeria should be given additional screening unless there are specific instructions not to.¶Aircraft flight crew members in uniform with valid IDs are not subject to liquid, gel, aerosol and footwear restrictions.¶Wheelchair and scooter cushions, disabled people’s footwear that cannot be removed, prosthetic devices, casts, braces and orthopedic shoes  may be exempt from screening for explosives.The document, marked “sensitive security information,” includes instructions on how it should be stored to avoid compromising security: Electronic copies should be password-protected; hard copies should be in separate binders and stored in cabinets or desk drawers; and missing copies should be immediately reported.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

A former T.S.A. administrator, Kip Hawley, said the document was not a road map for terrorists.“Hyperventilating that this is a breach of security that’s going to endanger the public is flat wrong,” Mr. Hawley said.In a letter to the agency, the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, Bennie G. Thompson, wrote, “Undoubtedly, this raises potential security concerns across our transportation system.”

A version of this article appears in print on December 9, 2009, on page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Air Security Guide Inadvertently Posted.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















