
  




Hacking Into Washington’s Online Voting Experiment - The New York Times





























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|Voting Test Falls Victim to Hackers



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
Voting Test Falls Victim to Hackers

By SARAH WHEATONOCT. 8, 2010



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








Hackers infiltrated the District of Columbia’s online voting system last week. They changed all votes for mayor to Master Control Pro and elected HAL 9000 the council chairman. The blaring University of Michigan fight song played whenever a new ballot was successfully cast.The hackers, a team of computer scientists from Ann Arbor, Mich., were capable of damage far less sophomoric. When the District’s Board of Elections and Ethics issued an open invitation for hackers to find vulnerabilities in a pilot system to allow overseas and military voters to cast ballots over the Web, it took about 36 hours for J. Alex Halderman and his students to break in. They found a document containing the names and 16-digit passwords of all 937 voters who were invited to use the system during the real election on Nov. 2.The team could have used the data to “vote in the name of every real voter and keep the real voters from voting,” Professor Halderman told the Council of the District of Columbia on Friday.He said he also saw signs that computer users in Iran and China were trying to crack the system’s master password — which his team  obtained from an equipment  manual. (Network administrators had never changed the four-character default password.) He said that the foreign hackers were probably not specifically trying to break into the District’s voting system, but that they represented a threat nonetheless.It took the elections board two days to notice the pranks.“A real attack might be completely invisible and could’ve gone on undetected for much, much longer,” Professor Halderman said. He testified with other members of a coalition that contends that security technology might never be adequate for voting by secret ballot.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“The next set of people who test it will find a whole new set of problems,” Jeremy Epstein, a computer scientist at the policy group SRI International who was also critical of the voting system, said Friday during an interview.Since the test, the elections board has scaled back the Web voting plan, though voters may still print out a ballot and mail it in.But Paul Stenbjorn, the board’s director of information services, said there were no plans to abandon the project. “The lesson learned is not to be more timid, but more aggressive about solving the problem,” he  responded.“The computer science community needs to understand that this toothpaste is already out of the tube, and no volume of warnings can put it back,” he said.Mr. Epstein said that computer voting has been tried in Estonia and in some recent primaries in America, but added that the ballots had not been anonymous. Currently, several West Virginia counties are participating in a pilot project to use online voting next month for Americans overseas and in the military.

A version of this article appears in print on October 9, 2010, on page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Voting Test Falls Victim To Hackers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















