
  




Earlier Terrorist Screening to Begin for Flights Into U.S. - The New York Times





























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Earlier Terrorist Screening to Begin for Flights Into U.S.



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Earlier Terrorist Screening to Begin for Flights Into U.S.

By ERIC LIPTONAUG. 10, 2007



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON, Aug. 9 — By early next year, passengers on flights bound for the United States will have their names checked against terrorist watch lists before departure, instead of after takeoff, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff announced Thursday.The change is part of a slowly unfolding shift to put the Department of Homeland Security in charge of the watch-list screening for all commercial flights, foreign and domestic.Last year alone, 87 million passengers flew into the United States from abroad. Airlines do not have to transmit final passenger manifests on foreign flights until after planes have taken off, which is one reason flights are sometimes diverted before reaching the United States but after Homeland Security officials have learned that a terrorism suspect is on board.The new rules will require that final manifests be transmitted no less than 30 minutes before departure, or that the information, which is collected from passports, be sent one piece at a time as soon as passengers check in, until a plane’s doors are closed.“As the London plot demonstrated, we need to do everything in our power to identify potential threats before that airplane takes off,” Mr. Chertoff said Thursday, referring to last year’s effort  to carry liquid explosives aboard planes bound to the United States from  Britain.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Separately, Mr. Chertoff announced that the department was close to formally taking over watch-list checks for all domestic flights.That long-delayed step will probably not be complete until 2009 or 2010, but the government has started the transition by announcing proposed rules for the new program, which will be called Secure Flight.Currently, airlines use government-supplied watch lists to determine whether to bar certain passengers or, more frequently, whether to subject them to further screening at a security checkpoint.For domestic flights, the program will require airlines to transmit passenger data, based on advance reservations, starting 72 hours before departure. To reduce the likelihood of false matches, airlines are to ask passengers for their date of birth and sex, although providing such information will not be required.Once the government takes over this task, checks are expected to be based on more up-to-date watch lists and more sophisticated software.The changes should also significantly reduce the number of people wrongly interrogated because of erroneous matches and give the government more time to react to a potential plot, said Kip Hawley, the assistant secretary for the Transportation Security Administration, which will operate Secure Flight.“It gives us a much better handle on identifying who the real people of concern are,” Mr. Hawley said Thursday.

A version of this article appears in print on , on page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Earlier Terrorist Screening To Begin for Flights Into U.S.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















