
  




U.S. Refuses More Money for New York in Terror Fight - The New York Times





























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





N.Y. / Region|U.S. Refuses More Money for New York in Terror Fight



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



N.Y. / Region 
U.S. Refuses More Money for New York in Terror Fight

By JACQUELINE PALANKJULY 13, 2007



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON, July 12 — New York State officials said on Thursday that they had not been able to persuade the head of the federal Department of Homeland Security to give them more grant money to prevent or respond to terrorism attacks.They met with Secretary Michael Chertoff just days after an article in Newsday disclosed how much the New York metropolitan area would receive this year under the department’s Urban Areas Security Initiative. The program will divide about $747 million among 45 high-threat, high-density urban areas.Though the New York region will receive $134 million, up 7.6 percent from last year’s $124.5 million, officials who represent the state are not happy, especially in light of the 2005 grant of $207.5 million.Leaving the meeting, Mr. Chertoff said he “didn’t come here to make money announcements.”That was not the answer sought by the officials who met with him: Senators Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Gov. Eliot Spitzer and the governor’s deputy secretary for public safety, Michael Balboni.“We had a very strenuous argument with Secretary Chertoff and told him that New York wasn’t being treated fairly,” Mr. Schumer said. “He made his argument that New York’s doing better than anyone else. We said ‘better than anyone else’ isn’t good enough.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Mr. Schumer said he had asked Mr. Chertoff to return New York’s funds to the 2005 level.Mrs. Clinton said: “We’re never going to agree with Secretary Chertoff about how to allocate Homeland Security funds. We believe New York has never gotten its fair share.”Mr. Schumer added that Mr. Chertoff had said the 2005 grant was so large because it was making up for a grant of only $49.7 million in 2004. He said Mr. Chertoff had indicated that New York would receive more funds from other homeland security grants, like those for port security.But Mr. Schumer said that that was not enough for a city that had been the victim of two terrorist attacks, and that the next step was “to see what we can do on the floor” of Congress. Mrs. Clinton said they would “continue to fight for every dollar we can get.”The department, which had expected to announce the grant awards this week, says it will do so by month’s end, according to Marlene Phillips, public affairs specialist for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which distributes the money.The department has said that it reduced New York’s 2006 grant money because of flaws in its proposals. This year Homeland Security has changed its method of awarding grants and has worked with New York’s Police and Fire Departments on their applications.As part of the changes, the 45 eligible urban areas are now divided into two tiers. Those areas considered at greatest risk — New York/northern New Jersey, the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles/Long Beach, Chicago, Houston and Washington — are eligible to apply for grants totaling nearly $411 million, almost 55 percent of the available funds. The remaining 39 areas will share $336 million.

A version of this article appears in print on , on page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Refuses More Money For New York In Terror Fight.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















