
  




First Impressions of Airport Body-Imaging Scanners - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|A Summer Invasion of the Body Scanners



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
A Summer Invasion of the Body Scanners



On the Road 
By                     
 JOE SHARKEY
 
JUNE 14, 2010




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








AT 6 a.m., Tucson International Airport was already busy in these initial days of the summer crush. Buying a newspaper at the gift shop, I heard loud cackling from the floor. A furry toy dog was tumbling around by my feet, laughing manically.“It does that whenever somebody moves,” the clerk  said, rolling her eyes. “Lots of people are buying them.”I imagined the poor woman having to spend her entire workday listening to the racket from such a  toy, called Chuckle Buddies,which costs $19.99. “Do you want me to step on it?” I asked.“Thank you, but they have more,” she said.Here we go, I thought, annoyed already as I began what would be a long day at three airports in the Southwest. I had to spend a  short time in Albuquerque. My afternoon return trip required a connection in Las Vegas.With travel demand picking up, this summer I’m going to report occasionally on days spent at airports. My initial review of the experience is mixed, but mostly positive.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The security line at the pleasant Tucson airport moved efficiently. “Good morning! The sun is shining, the birds are singing,” chirped the Transportation Security Administration officer who checked credentials. That was nice. Good cheer is contagious in air travel.My flight to Albuquerque on Southwest Airlines boarded efficiently, though it was full. It left on time. The flight attendants were pleasant. As we approached Albuquerque, a flight attendant thanked the passengers for flying Southwest and joked, “We do know that you have a choice in flying, though not necessarily a better choice.” People laughed.The Albuquerque International Sunport, which strikes me as a silly name, was also busy, but things moved smoothly.A few hours later, when I returned to  the airport for my trip home, I spotted in the security area a lane devoted to one of those new body-imaging machines that have been causing so much concern. You know, the ones that the T.S.A.  calls advanced imaging technology machines  and critics call strip-search machines.
Photo







Credit
            Chris Gash        


The security agency has 105 of them at 31 airports, and is awarding contracts to have about 450 installed at various airports by the end of this year. Eventually, these machines will replace the familiar magnetometers that you walk through at checkpoints.I have reported previously, and will continue doing so, on the various issues raised by these new machines, including privacy (the machines see through clothing), as well as the security agency’s need to detect nonmetallic weapons. That imperative was underscored last Christmas, when the so-called underwear bomber tried to detonate plastic explosives  on a flight to Detroit.But as more of us encounter these machines, I thought it might be useful to share my initial experience so I deliberately headed for the lane with one.First, you need to remove everything from your clothes, including wallets from pockets, because the machines see mass, metal or not. You can choose to carry your wallet in a hand, I was told. I was also told I had to remove my belt, which had never previously been an issue.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

A screener directed me into the portal, within which another screener told  me to stand on rubber footprints with my legs slightly spread.“Stand still, hands over your head,” she said, causing me some concern because I have dropped a few pounds recently and my traveling jeans, beltless, are precariously loose. A glass shutter slid in front of me as the machine did its scan. That was easy, I thought, tugging at my pants, which I had  managed to keep up.But on the far end of the portal waited another agent, who said he needed to inspect the wallet I had chosen to keep in my hand. “Stand facing me,” he said as he began rifling through the bills and cards in my wallet.I evidently did not comply fully with his specifications. “You really need to stand facing me directly and look directly at me, sir,” he said sharply. Except for the “sir” part, I had a flashback to boot camp many years earlier.No weaponry having been found in my wallet, I was dismissed. I trudged off to fetch my shoes and my carry-on, then continued on to my flight (on time) to Las Vegas.My impression of the new machine? It took a long time and felt invasive. And I did not like being ordered around by the security screener. Let me hear about your experiences.

E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on June 15, 2010, on page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: A Summer Invasion Of the Body Scanners.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage





FREQUENT FLIER 

Watching China Exchange Bicycles for Skyscrapers
JUNE 14, 2010









Chain and Independent Hotels Find Common Cause
JUNE 14, 2010








TIMES TOPIC 

Transportation Security Administration








TIMES TOPIC 

Airport Security


























On the Road
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.








                                Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice            
MAR 30








                                Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers            
MAR 23








                                Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures             








                                PreCheck Expansion Plan Raises Privacy Concerns            








                                In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty            






See More »








Related Coverage






FREQUENT FLIER 

Watching China Exchange Bicycles for Skyscrapers
JUNE 14, 2010









Chain and Independent Hotels Find Common Cause
JUNE 14, 2010








TIMES TOPIC 

Transportation Security Administration








TIMES TOPIC 

Airport Security









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















