
  




Bike Lockers to Be Moved Away From L.I.R.R. Tracks - The New York Times



























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





N.Y. / Region|Bike Lockers to Be Moved Away From L.I.R.R. Tracks



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



N.Y. / Region |                    Security                
Bike Lockers to Be Moved Away From L.I.R.R. Tracks

By NICOLE COTRONEOJULY 15, 2007



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








RONKONKOMAUNLESS you’re one of the eight people renting  bicycle lockers at the Long Island Rail Road   station here, you have probably never noticed them. Bolted to the sidewalk, looking like sturdy plastic storage containers, the lockers sit  alongside the south track, below the western end of the raised platform.But not for long.Because of their proximity to passengers and passing trains, the bicycle lockers could serve as  hiding places for bombs, according to the Metropolitan Transit Authority, which owns the property where the lockers are situated.   In November 2005, the agency requested  that the State Department of Transportation relocate  the lockers.Ronkonkoma will soon have its lockers moved, as will  six other stations: Central Islip, Farmingdale, Hicksville, Oakdale, Port Jefferson and Wantagh.The lockers, which belong to the State Department of Transportation, will be relocated to municipal lots near the stations in the next several months, said Eileen Peters, a  department spokeswoman. The longest distance cyclists will have to walk from their lockers to the trains will be two blocks in Port Jefferson, she said. The closest lockers will be about 60 feet from the tracks in Farmingdale.“We recognize that there are no known terrorist incidents involving lockers nationwide; nevertheless we recognize the M.T.A.’s concerns,” Ms. Peters said.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

When applying for a locker, potential renters have to show identification and sign a contract that states  they will not use the lockers for storing anything but their bicycles, Ms. Peters said. The policy is to inspect the lockers twice a year, she said, but renters are informed that their lockers are subject to search at any time.“It’s been a very popular program,” Ms. Peters said of the eight-year-old bike locker initiative. “It’s the purest form of commuting that we can ask for to reduce the wear and tear on our highways.”The department keeps a total of 116 lockers at 15 train stations, Ms. Peters said, and 52 are being leased. Lockers are rented for $60 a year; and there is  a $20 refundable key deposit. All the lockers at  Central Islip, East Northport, Ronkonkoma and Stony Brook stations are  in use. There are waiting lists in Central Islip, Ronkonkoma and Stony Brook.The lockers, which  are approximately 3  ½ feet tall and 6 feet deep,  are bolted to concrete slabs, Ms. Peters said. They will be demolished during removal and new ones will be installed. The  cost for the work and new lockers will be $89,000, she said.The department also plans to install  lockers at the Southampton, Bridgehampton, Copiague and Sayville  stations, bringing the total number  to 155, Ms. Peters said. The new lockers will also be located on  municipal lots near the stations.At Ronkonkoma there are bicycle racks in more conspicuous places than the lockers  —  near the taxi stand, the ticket office and the main westbound platform. Several bikes were chained to the racks on a recent Monday.Anthony Russo, 42, of Medford, walked off a train on a recent Monday evening with his bicycle.  He said he usually locks it up to one of the bike racks. Renting a locker is a hassle, he said, noting that the racks are more conveniently located.“I’m not concerned about anyone stealing it,” Mr. Russo said. His  black hybrid bicycle  cost $60, he explained,  the same price as an annual locker rental.

A version of this article appears in print on , on page LI15 of the New York edition with the headline: Bike Lockers to Be Moved Away From L.I.R.R. Tracks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















