
  




Washington Border Area Is Bracing for Games - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Olympics|Washington Border Area Is Bracing for Games



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Olympics 
Washington Border Area Is Bracing for Games

By WILLIAM YARDLEYJAN. 16, 2010



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








BELLINGHAM, Wash. — For nearly six years a group of as many as 150 government officials from dozens of security agencies have been meeting in Washington State every 90 days to discuss how to prepare for the 2010 Winter Olympics. Unlike security agencies gathering in Vancouver, the site of the Games next month, this group’s focus has largely been on this side of the Canadian border.“You usually have an event you’re planning for,” said Capt. Greg Miller of the Washington State Patrol, one of the many agencies involved. “In this case, we’re planning for anything that could happen ancillary to an event occurring somewhere else.”The goal, officials say, is to be ready for any emergency that might be magnified by having the Olympics and a few hundred thousand visitors next door, whether a terrorist attack, a truck overturned on Interstate 5 near the border or disruptions from the big winter storms that often pound the region.Here in Bellingham, nearly $4 million in federal money has been spent outfitting a new Olympics Coordination Center with 56 wired workstations for agencies ranging from the Department of Homeland Security to the Whatcom County Sheriff’s Office.Air and marine agents from the United States Customs and Border Protection office in Detroit have been temporarily assigned to Washington State. New lanes are being added to border checkpoints, and more agents are being brought in to work them. People entering the United States by land, sea and air from Canada will face increased scrutiny because of new entry requirements put in place last year.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“If there is any extremist group that wants to make a global statement, the Olympics provides a forum,” said Maj. Gen. Tim Lowenberg, the state adjutant general and head of homeland security for Washington State. “Given a choice of attacking a target in Canada or the United States, the United States is probably the higher-profile target.”General Lowenberg would not say whether he knew of specific terrorist threats linked to the region during the games. In addition to increased air and marine patrols, he said, “sensor and surveillance” equipment has been placed at a wide range of locations from the Yukon Territory to south of Seattle.“The baseline assessment of vulnerability has been as thorough and exhausting as you can imagine because we’ve had six years to complete it,” he said.Doug Dahl, the deputy director of emergency management for the Whatcom County Sheriff’s Office, said the effort had greatly improved working relationships among law enforcement agencies at various government levels and had given local officers training they might never have received.Last week, he said, a class was taught in how to respond if radioactive material was released, either by a terrorist act or by accident. Next week, there will be an exercise at the Blaine border crossing, the busiest crossing with Canada on the West Coast, that simulates people fleeing to the United States during a public health crisis in Canada, “whether from terrorism or bad hand washing.”Asked whether all the security preparations might prove excessive, he said: “I’d rather be prepared and have nothing happen. I won’t feel let down if it goes off without a hitch.”Vancouver is just 30 miles from Blaine and about 50 from Bellingham. Officials say they are planning for as many as a million people to cross the border during the Games, equivalent to a peak summer month.“The good news about the Winter Olympics is that they occur during the winter,” said Mike Milne, a spokesman for the Seattle office of Customs and Border Protection. “February is our least busy time of the year.”

A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2010, on page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Washington Border Area Is Bracing For Games.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















