
  




Control of Cybersecurity Becomes Divisive Issue - The New York Times






































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|Control of Cybersecurity Becomes Divisive Issue



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
Control of Cybersecurity Becomes Divisive Issue

By JAMES RISEN and ERIC LICHTBLAUAPRIL 16, 2009



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story










WASHINGTON — The National Security Agency has been campaigning to lead the government’s rapidly growing cybersecurity programs, raising privacy and civil liberties concerns among some officials who fear that the move could give the spy agency too much control over government computer networks.The Obama administration is expected to complete an internal cybersecurity review on Friday and may publicly announce its new computer-security strategy as early as next week, White House officials said Thursday. That plan will determine the scope of cybersecurity efforts throughout the federal government, they said, as well as which agencies will take leading roles in protecting the government’s computer systems.The security agency’s interest in taking over the dominant role has met resistance, including the resignation of the Homeland Security Department official who was until last month in charge of coordinating cybersecurity efforts throughout the government.Rod Beckstrom, who resigned in March as director of the National Cyber Security Center at the Homeland Security Department, said in an interview that he feared that the N.S.A.’s push for a greater role in guarding the government’s computer systems could give it  the power to collect and analyze every e-mail message, text message and Google search conducted by every employee in every federal agency.Mr. Beckstrom said he believed that an intelligence service that is supposed to focus on foreign targets should not be given so much control over the flow of information within the United States government. To detect threats against the computer infrastructure — including hackers, viruses and intrusions by foreign agents and terrorists — cybersecurity guardians must have virtually unlimited access to networks. Mr. Beckstrom argues that those responsibilities should be divided  among agencies.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“I have very serious concerns about the concentration of too much power in one agency,” he said. “Power over information is so important, and it is so difficult to monitor, that we need to have checks and balances.” Government officials have acknowledged that the  agency has gone beyond the broad limits set by Congress last year for intercepting telephone and e-mail messages of Americans. Leading Democratic and Republican lawmakers and civil liberties groups voiced strong concerns Thursday after The New York Times reported the breach.Senator Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat who leads the Senate Intelligence Committee, said in a statement that “these are serious allegations, and we will make sure we get the facts.” The committee plans to hold a closed hearing on the issue soon, Mrs. Feinstein  said.Representative Silvestre Reyes, the Texas Democrat who leads the House Intelligence Committee, said his panel had already held four closed-door sessions on N.S.A. compliance problems, and he said it would continue to monitor the issue actively. Representative Peter Hoekstra, the Michigan Republican who is the ranking minority member on the committee, complained, though, that the intelligence community had failed to inform Congress of the problem in “a quick and timely manner.”Some lawmakers said hearings were not enough. Senator Russ Feingold, a Wisconsin Democrat who was an outspoken opponent of the legislation that broadened the security agency’s wiretapping powers last year, said  the wiretapping problems were part of “a tragic retreat from the principles that had governed the sensitive area of government surveillance for the previous three decades.”  Mr. Feingold called for reforms in intelligence law as well as the public release of certain aspects of wiretapping operations “so that the American people can better understand their scope and impact.”Dennis C. Blair, the director of national intelligence, defended the agency’s wiretapping operation in a statement Thursday as “vital work” in protecting national security, but he acknowledged that “on occasion, N.S.A. has made mistakes and intercepted the wrong communications.” Mr. Blair  said the numbers of such mistakes were “very small” in  the agency’s vast overall collection efforts, although officials would not quantify how many violations had occurred.Some experts said Thursday that the disclosure of excessive domestic collection of information by the security agency  served as a warning against giving it greater control over cybersecurity.“The N.S.A.’s expertise, which is impressive and very, very deep, is focused primarily on the needs of the military and the intelligence community,” said Matt Blaze, a computer security expert at the University of Pennsylvania. “Their track record in dealing with civilian communications security is mixed at best.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Agency officials declined to comment Thursday, but the N.S.A. — which has the greatest concentration of computing power and expertise in the government — has powerful allies in its bid for control. Mr. Blair told Congress recently that he believed the agency  should be given the lead in cybersecurity, arguing that it has the computer “wizards” with the skills needed.In a recent interview, Dale Meyerrose, a retired Air Force general who was the chief information officer for the director of national intelligence until last year, agreed, saying that while intelligence officials need to be mindful of civil liberties concerns in the cybersecurity debate, the N.S.A. must have a leading role in that effort because of its technical expertise.“They are probably the premier cybersecurity, cyberorganization in the world,” General Meyerrose  said.Like Mr. Beckstrom, others worry about giving a spy agency a virtual monopoly over information security.

“There is a tremendous amount of expertise at N.S.A.,” said Amit Yoran, the former director of the cybersecurity division of the Homeland Security Department, “but I also agree that it would be a significant detriment to the nation to let the N.S.A. be the lead agency running cyberprograms. There is an inherent conflict of interest between their intelligence mission and the mission of the folks doing cyber.”

A version of this article appears in print on , on page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: Control of Cybersecurity Becomes Divisive Issue.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story































What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















