
  




Data for 1.3 Million Customers Stolen in Latest Game Maker Attack - The New York Times
























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|Data for 1.3 Million Customers Stolen in Latest Game Maker Attack



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
Data for 1.3 Million Customers Stolen in Latest Game Maker Attack

By REUTERSJUNE 19, 2011



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








TOKYO — The Japanese video game developer Sega said Sunday that information belonging to 1.3 million customers had been stolen from its database, the latest global hacker attack against a video game company.Names, birth dates, e-mail addresses and encrypted passwords of Sega Pass online network members had been compromised, Sega said in a statement, though payment data like credit card numbers were safe. Sega Pass has been shut down since late last week.“We are deeply sorry for causing trouble to our customers. We want to work on strengthening security,” said Yoko Nagasawa, a Sega spokeswoman, adding that it was unclear when the company would restart Sega Pass.The attack against Sega, a division of Sega Sammy Holdings that makes game software like Sonic the Hedgehog as well as slot machines, follows other recent significant breaches. Targets have included Citigroup, which said more than 360,000 accounts were hit in May, and the International Monetary Fund.The drama surrounding the recent round of video game breaches paled in comparison with what Sony, the maker of the PlayStation, experienced after two high-profile attacks that surfaced in April.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Those breaches led to the theft of account data for more than 100 million customers, making it the largest ever hacking of data outside the financial services industry.They also exposed what turned out to be a large number of security holes in sites throughout the global Sony media empire.That led to attacks on Sony systems that undermined confidence in the company and made it the source of frequent jokes by security experts.Sega Europe, a division of Sega that runs the Sega Pass network, immediately notified Sega and the network customers after it found out about the breach Thursday, Ms. Nagasawa said.Sega was one of the biggest video game consoles makers in the 1990s but pulled out of the market in 2001 in response to disappointing sales of its Dreamcast system, which began sales  in 1998 to widespread industry praise. Dreamcast lost ground to newer products developed by Sony and Nintendo.It now focuses on developing video games for systems made by other companies.While the F.B.I. is likely to be called in to investigate the attack on Sega, as the U.S. government agency typically is in such cases, its agents may find themselves competing for clues with members of the Lulz Security hacking group.Lulz, a group of hackers that has been behind the cyber attacks against other video game companies including Nintendo, unexpectedly offered to track down and punish the hackers who broke into Sega’s database.In its offer to assist Sega, a Twitter post from Lulz hinted that its leaders might count themselves among a small but highly loyal group of game players who still play on the aging Dreamcast console.“Sega — contact us,” Lulz said. “We want to help you destroy the hackers that attacked you. We love the Dreamcast, these people are going down.”

A version of this article appears in print on June 20, 2011, in The International Herald Tribune.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















