
  




Annoyances Mount Over the Body Scanner - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Annoyances Mount Over the Body Scanner



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Annoyances Mount Over the Body Scanner



On the Road 
By                     
 JOE SHARKEY
 
JULY 19, 2010




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








YOU may think of this as the summer of the heat wave. I prefer to think of it as  the summer of the body scanner.As the Transportation Security Administration buys  these machines and installs them at more and more airport checkpoints, a lot of  travelers are  having their initial encounters with them. And while I hear from large numbers of readers who hate the idea, it’s becoming increasingly clear that body scanners will soon be a standard part of the air travel experience.Today,  142 body scanners are in use at 41 airports, and the security administration  says it will have more than 450 installed by the end of the year.The rationale for this is  clear. Nonmetallic explosives pose a major  security threat. As was demonstrated by the infamous, if inept, underwear bomber last Christmas Day, a person can pass through airport metal detectors with chemical explosives hidden in clothing. Body scanners see through clothing, detecting any mass on the body, metal or not.While some critics claim that terrorists can defeat the technology by hiding explosive material in body cavities, the momentum for body scanners is strong. In late June, for example, legislation  was introduced in the Senate to require the security administration  to replace magnetometer metal detectors with body scanners at all airport checkpoints by 2013.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“Magnetometers are not enough in this post-9/11 world,” said Senator Bob Bennett, a Utah Republican who is the co-sponsor of the bill, along with Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat.The strongest opposition, of course, comes from those who feel the machines are an  invasion of personal privacy, but the security agency says  people are more worried about the real threat posed by nonmetallic explosives. Early this year, the agency began highlighting a USA Today/Gallup Poll conducted Jan.  5-6, in which 78 percent of respondents said they supported using body scanners.
Photo







Credit
            Chris Gash        


The poll also found that women were twice as likely as men to say they would be “very uncomfortable” submitting to a body scan. Gallup put an optimistic face on that, saying that since 84 percent of respondents  said that they believe body scanners would  effectively detect explosives, “air travelers have a compelling reason to potentially counter any personal modesty issues they have related to body scans.”Jacqueline Berlin, however, doesn’t think the reasoning is compelling at all. Like many women who replied to my recent columns on body scanners, she said, basically,  call me a prude, but I will do everything I can to avoid this even if it means reducing travel.“I’ve always been modest, but I’m not weird about it,” Ms. Berlin said in a telephone interview. Recently, while returning from a business trip, she declined to follow a screener’s direction to go through a body scanner at O’Hare International Airport, and was instead  taken aside for a full-body pat down.“They were rolling their eyes, like, ‘What’s wrong with her?’  —  like I was the first person ever to refuse,” she said. The pat down was public and, she said, embarrassingly thorough, and in a manner that she thought was punitive for refusing to use the body scanner.“When I got on the plane, I was still trembling,” she said. “And then I was thinking, O.K., if this is what it comes down to, if this is what it takes to get on an airplane, well, I’m going to choose not to travel by air whenever possible.”Ralph Nader also contacted me after recent columns on body scanners. He told me  that I and others in the media have failed to fully address concerns about the levels of radiation people receive from  body scanners that employ X-ray technology.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

(Not all do. A  spokeswoman for the security administration said that 99 of the body scanners now installed use a form of X-ray technology with radiation levels that are minimal and safe. The other 43 body scanners use a form of radio wave technology. More on that issue next week.)Mr. Nader said that he has so far managed to avoid body scanners. “Are you kidding? I never go through them,” he said. And he  added  that the machines will only add to the security annoyances that are forcing some people to avoid air travel.“Pretty soon, nobody is going to take a plane if they can drive instead,” he said. “I won’t take a plane if I can drive, even 400 miles, or take the train. Who wants to go through that stuff?”

E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on July 20, 2010, on page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: Annoyances Mount Over the Body Scanner.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage









FREQUENT FLIER 

Trying to Make the Fashion Life Look Glamorous
JULY 19, 2010


























On the Road
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.








                                Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice            
MAR 30








                                Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers            
MAR 23








                                Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures             








                                PreCheck Expansion Plan Raises Privacy Concerns            








                                In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty            






See More »








Related Coverage






FREQUENT FLIER 

Trying to Make the Fashion Life Look Glamorous
JULY 19, 2010













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















