
  




As Phones Do More, They Become Targets of Hacking - The New York Times
































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|As Phones Do More, They Become Targets of Hacking



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
As Phones Do More, They Become Targets of Hacking

By BRAD STONEDEC. 20, 2009



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








SAN FRANCISCO — Mobile phones are becoming ever more like personal computers. That means they are also becoming more vulnerable to traditional computer menaces like hackers and viruses.This year, the Russian antivirus company Kaspersky Lab reported on a new malicious program that stole money by taking over Nokia phones and making small charges to the owners’ wireless accounts.Last month, an Australian student created an experimental worm that hopscotched across “jailbroken” iPhones, which are phones altered to run software Apple has not authorized. The mischievous worm did not cause any damage; it just installed a photo of the ’80s pop star Rick Astley. But to security experts, it suggested that pernicious attacks on iPhones are possible.Where there are perceived security threats, there are always entrepreneurs and investors looking to capitalize on them — and build profitable businesses. This month Khosla Ventures, a prominent Silicon Valley venture capital firm, led an investment group that injected $5.5 million into a fledgling security start-up called Lookout.Lookout, based in San Francisco, was previously a consulting firm called Flexilis run by recent graduates of the University of Southern California. Now it wants to be the security giant of the mobile world, similar to the role Symantec plays in the PC market.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

This year, Lookout began testing security software for phones running the Windows Mobile and Android operating systems, and it will soon introduce security applications for the BlackBerry and iPhone. The software protects phones against rogue programs and gives phone owners the ability to remotely back up and erase the data on their phones. It also lets them track the location of their handset on the Web.A basic version of the software is free, while the company plans to charge a monthly subscription for a version with more features.“It feels a lot like it did in 1999 in desktop security,” said John Hering, Lookout’s 26-year-old chief executive, who for years has done research demonstrating security vulnerabilities in phones. “People are using the mobile Web and downloading applications more than ever before, and there are threats that come with that.”
Photo






The co-founders of a cellphone security company, Lookout: Kevin Mahaffey, left, James Burgess, center, and John Hering.

Credit
            Peter DaSilva for The New York Times        


 Lookout represents the latest attempt to build a new business that capitalizes on  the surge of smartphones. Thousands of companies making mobile games, shopping tools and other programs have sprung up in the last two years as the iPhone in particular has taken off. Lookout and its investors believe this is the right time to get into the market.“The rules of mobile are different,” said Vinod Khosla, founder of Khosla Ventures, which also recently invested in Square, a mobile payments start-up. “This is people’s most personal computer, and it needs to be protected.”Companies like Research In Motion, maker of the BlackBerry, and Good Technology, a Silicon Valley-based mobile messaging firm, already offer mobile security tools, but their systems are aimed at businesses. Security firms like Symantec also have mobile security divisions, and a five-year-old company, Trust Digital, based in McLean, Va., has set its sights on this market.Lookout says it can address the unique challenges of protecting cellphones, like preserving battery life. While the company will not give details, it says it has figured out how to get its software to work on the iPhone, which does not allow non-Apple programs to operate in the background, as security software typically does.Mr. Hering and his co-founder, Kevin Mahaffey, 25, have been publicly demonstrating the weaknesses of mobile phones for some time. In 2005, they camped outside the Academy Awards ceremony in Hollywood and scanned the phones of stars walking the red carpet, using a short-range Bluetooth wireless connection. They found that as many as 100 of the phones were vulnerable to hacking over such a connection.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

That year, at the Black Hat security conference in Las Vegas, they hacked into a phone over a mile away using Bluetooth.Lookout’s founders and backers concede that for now, snoops and bad guys pose much less of a threat to cellphones than to PCs. But they believe there is an immediate need for software that preserves and protects a phone’s data, from e-mail to corporate information, and they say current systems do not work when a family or business has multiple types of cellphones on various wireless networks.For instance, a small business could install the Lookout software on many different types of devices, back up all the data and remotely erase a phone if, say, an employee leaves it in a cab.Jeff Moss, a security expert and organizer of the Black Hat conference, said mobile security had historically “been a solution in search of a problem.” But he said mobile viruses had recently become more common in Asia. His own Nokia N97 phone even caught a bug recently, though software he was running from F-Secure, a Finnish security company, caught it in time.“The tipping point will be when we’re using the phone to shop and conduct banking,” Mr. Moss said. “The more you do with the phone, the more valuable a target it becomes.”

A version of this article appears in print on December 21, 2009, on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: As Phones Do More, They Become Targets of Mischief.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















