
  




T.S.A. Grants Airline Pilots an Exception to Screenings - The New York Times
































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|T.S.A. Grants Airline Pilots an Exception to Screenings



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
T.S.A. Grants Airline Pilots an Exception to Screenings

By RON NIXONNOV. 20, 2010



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON — At least one group of air travelers will get a break from the body scans and pat-downs that have provoked a national outcry.On Friday, the Transportation Security Administration announced that it would let uniformed airline pilots skip the screenings, reversing an earlier policy that everyone had to go through the screenings as part of the agency’s efforts to prevent terrorist attacks. Pilots who are traveling out of uniform or not on official business will still be subject to searches, the agency said.The full-body scans and pat-downs being performed at a number of airports have angered travelers, many of whom said the searches were invasive and likened them to virtual strip searches. Passengers have also raised concerns about the long-term effect of radiation exposure from airport scanners.The agency said pilots would still have to pass through a metal detector at airport checkpoints and present two photo identifications that would be verified against a flight crew database.The government ruling comes after an extensive two-year lobbying campaign by unions and organizations representing airline pilots. The groups made the argument that because their members had already been through extensive background checks by federal law enforcement officials, there was no need for the added security searches.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Those lobbying for changes in pilot screenings include Captain Chesley B. Sullenberger, who gained national fame last year after safely landing a plane in the Hudson River with over 100 passengers on board.“Allowing these uniformed pilots, whose identity has been verified, to go through expedited screening at the checkpoint just makes for smart security and an efficient use of our resources,” John S. Pistole, the agency’s administrator, said in a statement.Dwayne Baird, a spokesman for the T.S.A., said on Saturday that the ruling would apply only to pilots, and not flight attendants.“They will still have to go through the same screening as everyone else,” Mr. Baird said.Flight attendants and their unions have argued that they should also be allowed to bypass the pat-downs and screenings, as well.“Flight attendants are subject to extensive background checks, so there is no reasonable explanation why this highly vetted group of aviation employees continues to be exposed to lengthy airport security lines which may affect their ability to report to the aircraft on time,” Patricia A. Friend, president of the Association of Flight Attendants, said in a statement this month.Mr. Baird said he did not have any information on why flight attendants were not included in the new T.S.A. policy, even though they undergo the same background checks as pilots. He said he had no information about forthcoming changes for ordinary passengers.Questioned on the protocol while at a NATO summit meeting in Portugal, President Obama acknowledged travelers’ frustrations. “What I’ve said to the T.S.A. is that you have to constantly refine and measure whether what we’re doing is the only way to assure the American people’s safety,” he said. “And you also have to think through, ‘Are there other ways of doing it that are less intrusive?’ ”

A version of this article appears in print on November 21, 2010, on page A25 of the New York edition with the headline: T.S.A. Grants Airline Pilots An Exception To Screenings.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















