
  




Researchers Find Way to Steal Encrypted Data - The New York Times

































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|Researchers Find Way to Steal Encrypted Data



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
Researchers Find Way to Steal Encrypted Data

By JOHN MARKOFFFEB. 22, 2008



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Princeton-based researchers broke the encryption system by freezing memory chips, permitting them to read the software. 

Credit
            Center for Information Technology Policy, Princeton University        


SAN FRANCISCO —  A group led by a Princeton University computer security researcher has developed a simple method to steal encrypted information stored on computer hard disks.The technique, which could undermine security software protecting critical data on computers, is as easy as chilling a computer memory chip with a blast of frigid air from a can of dust remover. Encryption software is widely used by companies and government agencies, notably in portable computers that are especially susceptible to theft.The development, which was described on the group’s Web site Thursday, could also have implications for the protection of encrypted personal data from prosecutors.The move, which cannot be carried out  remotely, exploits a little-known vulnerability of the dynamic random access, or DRAM, chip. Those chips temporarily hold data, including the keys to modern data-scrambling algorithms. When the computer’s electrical power  is shut off, the data, including the keys, is supposed to disappear.In a technical paper that was published Thursday on the Web site of Princeton’s Center for Information Technology Policy, the group demonstrated that standard memory chips actually retain their data for seconds or even minutes after power is cut off.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

When the chips were chilled using an inexpensive can of air, the data was frozen in place, permitting the researchers to easily read the keys —   long strings of ones  and zeros — out of the chip’s memory.“Cool the chips in liquid nitrogen (-196 °C) and they hold their state for hours at least, without any power,” Edward W.  Felten, a Princeton computer scientist, wrote in a Web posting. “Just put the chips back into a machine and you can read out their contents.”The researchers used special pattern-recognition software of their own to identify security keys among the millions or even billions of pieces of data on the memory chip.“We think this is pretty serious to the extent people are relying on file protection,” Mr. Felten said.The team, which included five graduate students led by Mr. Felten and three independent technical experts, said they did not know if such an attack capability would compromise government computer information because details of how classified computer data is protected are not publicly available.Officials at the Department of Homeland Security, which paid for a portion of the research, did not return repeated calls for comment.The researchers also said they had not explored disk encryption protection systems as now  built into some commercial disk drives.But they said they had proved that so-called Trusted Computing  hardware, an industry standard approach that has been heralded as significantly  increasing the security of modern personal computers, does not appear to stop the potential attacks.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

A number of computer security experts said the research results were an indication that assertions of robust computer security should  be regarded with caution.“This is just another example of how things aren’t quite what they seem when people tell you things are secure,” said Peter Neumann, a security researcher at SRI International in Menlo Park, Calif.The Princeton researchers wrote that they were able to compromise encrypted information stored using special utilities in the Windows, Macintosh and Linux operating systems.Apple has had a FileVault disk encryption feature as an option in its OS X operating system since 2003. Microsoft added file encryption last year with BitLocker features in its Windows Vista operating system. The programs both use the federal government’s certified Advanced Encryption System algorithm to scramble data as it is read from and written to a computer hard disk. But both programs leave the keys in computer memory in an unencrypted form.“The software world tends not to think about these issues,” said Matt Blaze, an associate professor of computer and information science at the University of Pennsylvania. “We tend to make assumptions about the hardware. When we find out that those assumptions are wrong, we’re in trouble.”Both of the software publishers said they ship their operating systems with the file encryption turned off. It is then up to the customer to turn on the feature.Executives of Microsoft said BitLocker has a range of protection options that they referred to as “good, better and best.”Austin Wilson, director of Windows product management security  at Microsoft, said the company recommended that BitLocker be used in some cases with additional hardware security. That might include either a special U.S.B. hardware key, or a secure identification card that generates an additional key string.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The Princeton researchers acknowledged that in these advanced modes, BitLocker encrypted data  could not be accessed using the vulnerability they discovered.An Apple spokeswoman said that the security of the  FileVault system could also be enhanced by using a secure card to add to the strength of the key.The researchers said they began exploring the utilities for vulnerabilities last fall after seeing a reference to the persistence of data in memory in a technical paper written by computer scientists at Stanford in 2005.The Princeton group included Seth D. Schoen of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, William Paul of Wind River Systems  and Jacob Appelbaum, an independent computer security researcher.The issue of protecting information with disk encryption technology became prominent recently in a criminal case involving a Canadian citizen who late in 2006 was stopped by United States customs agents who said they had found child pornography on his computer.When the agents tried to examine the machine later, they discovered that the data was protected by  encryption. The  suspect has refused to divulge his password. A federal agent testified in court that the only way to determine the password otherwise would be with a password guessing program, which  could take years.A federal magistrate ruled recently that forcing the suspect to disclose the password would be unconstitutional.

A version of this article appears in print on , on page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Method For Stealing Critical Data.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















