
  




To Find the Danger, This Software Poses as the Bad Guys - The New York Times



























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Your Money|To Find the Danger, This Software Poses as the Bad Guys



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Your Money |                    Prototype                
To Find the Danger, This Software Poses as the Bad Guys

By MICHAEL FITZGERALDAPRIL 22, 2007



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo







Credit
            Christophe Vorlet        


FOR all our dependence on computer software, the truth is, it isn’t very safe. Recent data breaches involving tens of millions of confidential company files have made this all too clear.Why is software potentially so dangerous to the health of a business? There are scores of reasons. The big one is that software systems are so complex that it is next to impossible to find all the holes.That can lead to trouble: hackers stealing trade secrets, for example, or customer information. Company servers can also be infiltrated and used to send spam, or data can inadvertently be exposed to anyone with access to a search engine.The rise of the Web, which encourages companies to connect their programs to those of other companies, creates the potential for even more software problems  —  most code wasn’t written with sharing in mind.Then there is the growing practice of releasing unfinished “beta” code to the Web to keep ahead of competitors, which can make it seem as if the software industry prefers to fix  products after the fact. Indeed, at times, the software industry appears to be racing downhill while still trying to build its car.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

A new company, Veracode, of Burlington, Mass.,  gives companies a way to help keep the wheels on. In February, Veracode introduced SecurityReview, a service that lets companies automatically test their code, either alone or with other businesses. The goal is to find  vulnerabilities that could leave data exposed or that hackers could exploit.Some of these vulnerabilities are as old as software itself — like the buffer overflow, in which hackers hijack computer systems by interrupting  program commands and inserting new ones. Veracode’s tool finds these and other common problems with software by acting as an automatic hacker. Continue reading the main story







Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Little wonder, since the company’s founders, Chris Wysopal and Christien Rioux, were members of  the L0pht, a security research group. The L0pht spent much of its time looking for security weaknesses in software, and its members were often criticized as finding problems but not solutions, Mr. Wysopal says. In part to address this, the L0pht evolved into a part of the security consulting firm @Stake (later bought by Symantec).Much of Veracode’s software was written by Mr. Rioux, a prolific programmer who says he writes code to relax. (While working on SecurityReview, he wrote a version of the computer game Quake 3: Arena that would run on hand-held computers using Microsoft’s Windows Mobile operating system — no easy feat, since the chips in such hand-helds don’t include the operations typically needed to run high-level computer graphics.)Mr. Rioux’s automatic hacking tool grew out of more than a decade of finding software vulnerabilities, and noticing that programmers make the same mistakes over and over again, he says. That led Veracode to develop a patented technique for dealing with these predictable problems. Companies pay for the service by megabytes of code tested, which Veracode says will make it economical for companies to use.Tools like Veracode’s are useful because companies would otherwise have to hire security consultants to hack into their systems, a process called penetration testing. This is expensive and limited in its impact — most companies can afford to hire such consultants only for a week or two, and the next time a business  updates its software, it needs another test.The company has already signed its first customers, says Matt Moynahan, Veracode’s chief executive. He says they’re attracted to the service partly because it includes a security rating system to assess the risks that software presents to operations.Veracode isn’t the first company to try to automate elements of hacking. Companies like Fortify, Coverity and Watchfire offer automated tools to help companies test aspects of their software, as does  Microsoft. But Veracode is the first to offer a service that tests binary code, produced after a program’s source code has been put through a compiler and converted into the 0’s and 1’s needed to make it work.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Joseph Feiman, an analyst at the Gartner Group, the market research firm, says a service to test binary code is a breakthrough because the Web 2.0 phenomenon is built on the idea of companies sharing their applications with partners, suppliers and customers, adding new security risks with every connection.Veracode lets companies test much of that code, though it cannot test scripting tools, particularly important in Web development. It also needs humans to check on false positives and negatives. “We can’t say we’re selling a silver bullet,” Mr. Wysopal says.Business executives may be forgiven for wondering why they’ve spent billions of dollars on firewalls, antivirus software and other security tools, only to find that they need to spend more money.Simeon Simeonov, a venture capitalist whose firm joined with two others to invest $19 million in Veracode, says that what companies  have now is a castle and moat, “but those aren’t going to protect you from the assassin who sneaks in on market day.”IT is also important to point out that security develops over time. Federal law did not mandate seat belts in cars until 1968, notes Brian Chess, a former hardware engineer who is now the chief scientist at Fortify, which offers a tool to test source code. He says companies like his are a sign that the software industry is maturing.Michael Howard, a senior security program manager at Microsoft and the author of six books on software security, says he thinks that software can’t be compared to traditional engineering. “Would a car survive attacks every 15 minutes from anywhere in the world?” he asked. “I would say no.”Microsoft, which as the world’s biggest software company is also the world’s biggest hacker target, stepped up efforts five years ago, when Bill Gates, its chairman and then the chief executive, wrote one of his fabled memos demanding that the company improve the security of its products.Mr. Howard has been intimately involved in that effort, and says that it is paying off. For instance, the latest version of Microsoft’s Internet Information Server has had one-third of the vulnerabilities discovered in its predecessor.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Microsoft has also developed what it calls the Security Development Lifecycle, which mandates how to create a secure software development culture. Microsoft takes security seriously enough to share these even with rivals like Adobe. Even longtime critics of Microsoft say the company has made progress.Mr. Howard says that more improvements will always be needed  because data thieves will always find new ways to get into systems (some of which, like sweet-talking employees out of passwords, can foil the best software). It is, he says, part of the cost of doing business in the digital age.

Michael Fitzgerald is a Boston-area writer on business, technology and culture. E-mail: mfitz@nytimes.com.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page BU3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Find the Danger, This Software Poses as the Bad Guys.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















