
  




Complaints of Poor Attitude in Airport  Body Scans - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|In Body Scans, Less Attitude Please



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
In Body Scans, Less Attitude Please



On the Road 
By                     
 JOE SHARKEY
 
JUNE 21, 2010




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








THERE was robust reader reaction to last week’s column describing  those body scan machines that the Transportation Security Administration is busily installing in airports  — and my experience with one of them.I can only summarize the responses here and offer a few  excerpts. But in general, readers said they wished  some screeners at the body scan machines were  nicer and did not order travelers around  as if they were jailhouse perps. “With the new scanners, the agents have gotten really bossy,”  Martha Keith wrote.Meanwhile, I heard from a lot of readers who have metal implants like hip or knee replacements, who were previously  subject to physical pat-downs after they set off metal detector alarms. “I actually seek out the scanner,” said Roy Brunett, who had a hip replacement. He  said the new technology “saves me lots of time and aggravation.”On the other hand, the body scanners, which detect mass rather than just metal, have introduced complications  for some women who are breast cancer survivors. One woman, who asked that her name not be used, said  a female screener had asked her to step aside after  a body scan. “She asked if I had had any surgery to my chest area, and I responded that I had had a mastectomy and that I wore a silicone breast prosthesis. She thanked me, said, ‘Affirmative’ into the headset.”Asked about the readers’ comments, a spokesman for the Transportation Security Administration, Greg Soule, said passengers with  medical devices outside the body, like a breast prosthesis or a colostomy bag, “will be offered a private screening.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

By far, most readers wrote to complain about  screeners who were rude. Helaine Fendelman said she felt as if  she were in a cage as a screener “yelled at me about why I wasn’t paying attention to those who had proceeded me” through the machine.Deb Green, who saw a screener talking by headset with the unseen person at the image monitor, said she felt, “from the comments and smirks, that they were appraising each of the women going through.”
Photo







Credit
            Chris Gash        


Tom Taylor had a tissue  in his pocket and,  he said, a screener ordered him rudely, “Take it out!” He added, “The guy seemed about one degree from calling in reinforcements over the Kleenex.” Elizabeth Wiley wrote of the “generally bullying air of the experience.” Melissa Hickey said a screener “barked orders at me as if I were a common criminal.”Bob Michelet agreed with my view that being ordered around was a “boot camp-like experience,” as he put it. Ed Lyons concurred, but said that so far, he hasn’t heard anyone referred to, drill sergeant-style, as a “maggot”  —  though, he joked, “it’s only a matter of time.”Procedures for standing in place and raising arms during the body scan could be more clearly and politely explained, many readers wrote. Mary P. Koss said she didn’t like being “yelled at” after a screener decided  her fingers were not forming a triangle as instructed while she held her hands over her head. “When I exited the machine, I was yelled at again to stand in place,” she said.“I felt like a criminal,” Liz Caton said, “when asked to stand with hands overhead.”Richard H. Lawrence Jr. said he had to take  his lip balm  from a pocket before being scanned and give it to a screener, who  “got all authoritarian” when he asked if he could open it himself for  sanitation reasons.To those readers, Mr. Soule of the security agency responded, “T.S.A. strives to ensure that all passengers are treated with the respect and courtesy they deserve.”Readers generally seemed to be well aware of the machines and the issues involved, and many said they were receptive to using them once they felt comfortable with the prospect.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

From the readers’ mail, I found other major concerns, besides being treated rudely by screeners who themselves are getting used to the new process. They worried about  privacy (the machines see through clothing), and the possible harmful effects of frequent radiation (one of two types of machines being installed uses X-rays, but at low, safe levels, the security agency  says).And because all items, not just metal, must be removed from pockets before screening, readers said they were    concerned   about not being able to see  their personal possessions, like wallets, while standing in the confines of the machines. And lots of readers said that being scanned took more time, and they worry that the checkpoint wait will increase as the new machines replace the old magnetometers.“I can see where they will cause lines to back up, especially when nonfrequent fliers are introduced into the mix,”  Angelo Mazza wrote.

E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on June 22, 2010, on page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: In Body Scans, Less Attitude Please.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage






Companies Offer Workers Incentives to Fly Coach
JUNE 21, 2010








FREQUENT FLIER 

In Airport Encounters, an Embrace of Louisiana
JUNE 21, 2010








TIMES TOPIC 

Airport Security








TIMES TOPIC 

Transportation Security Administration


























On the Road
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.








                                Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice            
MAR 30








                                Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers            
MAR 23








                                Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures             








                                PreCheck Expansion Plan Raises Privacy Concerns            








                                In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty            






See More »








Related Coverage







Companies Offer Workers Incentives to Fly Coach
JUNE 21, 2010








FREQUENT FLIER 

In Airport Encounters, an Embrace of Louisiana
JUNE 21, 2010








TIMES TOPIC 

Airport Security








TIMES TOPIC 

Transportation Security Administration









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















