
  




How Not to Say Sorry After a Blunder Affecting Millions - The New York Times































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|How Not to Say Sorry After a Blunder Affecting Millions



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. |                    The Texas Tribune                
How Not to Say Sorry After a Blunder Affecting Millions

By ROSS RAMSEYAPRIL 21, 2011



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








Eating crow is a fine art. Susan Combs hasn’t mastered it.The state comptroller of public accounts has been ducking responsibility ever since revealing that her agency had put the names and Social Security numbers of 3.5 million people in a publicly available spot on the comptroller’s state Web site.For a year.Think anyone noticed what was lying around? Nobody knows, to tell you the truth. The comptroller flailed in the week after the announcement, firing some subordinates, and when sought by the news media, sending her P.R. people to answer the sharp questions. Before lawmakers, she tried to blame the agencies that sent her the information in the first place. Those agencies put it right back on her desk, saying the info from their shops — the Teacher Retirement System, the Employees Retirement System and the Texas Workforce Commission — had been sent over in properly encrypted form. It was the comptroller’s office that left it, unencrypted, on a public server. For a year.Ms. Combs responded to this self-inflicted challenge with a letter to each person whose name and Social Security number were left out for the thieves. The letter is a masterpiece of equivocation and prevarication, leaving a false impression without telling an outright lie.“Please be aware that we have no indication that your personal information has been misused in any way.”They also don’t have any indication that it hasn’t. All they know is that this particular pie was on the shelf for a year and that they don’t know whether anyone took a slice of it.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“The data files were immediately taken offline and secured.”The letter doesn’t say anything about the year that lapsed before they were “immediately” secured.It says the agency created a Web site and some FAQs and an e-mail address where the current and former state employees and others who were affected can get more information on the mess.
Photo






Comptroller Susan Combs

Credit
            Bob Daemmrich        


But let’s say you’re not one of those folks affected or don’t care about them. Let’s say you’re in a forgiving mood or you’re a Combs chum, or a legislative budget-writer so dependent on the comptroller for good news that you’re willing to let this one go.This is the agency that collects taxes for the State of Texas. It doesn’t have a lot of tax information about individuals, since Texas doesn’t have a personal income tax. But it’s got a lot of sensitive and proprietary information about the businesses in the state. The agency’s officials have made an explicit deal with those taxpayers: send us the information we need to make sure you’re paying the taxes you owe and we’ll never share it with anyone unless they’re either a tax collector or in law enforcement or in the Legislature (that’s right, kids — Texas legislators have the legal authority to peek at your books).That’s a setup to put this line from the letter in proper context: “As an added precaution, we are actively working with law enforcement and have contacted all major credit reporting agencies to notify them of this issue.”Sure they have. What are they going to do? Throw the F.B.I. and the Texas attorney general out of the building? Those two agencies have begun a criminal investigation.The letter ends with the only thing approaching an apology: “We sincerely regret that this incident occurred. Thank you for your shared vigilance at a time when the potential for cyber crime remains a great threat.”A threat aided and abetted by a state agency that’s supposed to be expert at locking up sensitive information.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The comptroller’s name isn’t on the letterhead, mentioned in the text or at the bottom of the letter. Before all of this came to light, Ms. Combs was busy planning a run for lieutenant governor, if that job comes open in 2014, and has been telling political people and potential supporters that she’ll announce soon after the current legislative session.Her signature isn’t on the 3.5 million form letters that went out. Holy identity theft, Batman, that’s a lot of voters — equivalent to about one of every five adults in Texas. The letters are signed instead by Victor Gonzalez, chief technology officer for the comptroller’s office.He resigned last Friday, before all of the letters had even been delivered.

rramsey@texastribune.org
A version of this article appears in print on April 22, 2011, on page A21A of the National edition with the headline: How Not to Say Sorry After a Blunder Affecting Millions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage





THE TEXAS TRIBUNE 

Bill Seeks to Designate Drug Cartels as Terrorists
APRIL 21, 2011












THE TEXAS TRIBUNE 

A City Built on Oil Discovers How Precious Its Water Can Be
APRIL 21, 2011
























Related Coverage






THE TEXAS TRIBUNE 

Bill Seeks to Designate Drug Cartels as Terrorists
APRIL 21, 2011








THE TEXAS TRIBUNE 

A City Built on Oil Discovers How Precious Its Water Can Be
APRIL 21, 2011













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















