
  




Bad Enough Being Shoeless but Just Look at This Décor - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Bad Enough Being Shoeless but Just Look at This Décor



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Bad Enough Being Shoeless but Just Look at This Décor



On the Road 
By                     
 JOE SHARKEY
 
OCT. 23, 2007




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








AT the airport security checkpoints, I always look at the hodgepodge of folding tables and figure that somewhere,  a church basement  is missing its furniture.That was going through my mind the other day while leaving the Tucson airport. I’d been away from home for more than  a week working, so my carry-on and laptop were stuffed with files.Passengers and screeners alike all looked as if  they were silently humming “Sixteen Tons.” Hoist those bags! Keep those bins moving!In front of me was a uniformed pilot guiding himself and two small girls, both with their pink rollaboards, through the checkpoint. I’m always amazed at how parents can maneuver bag-laden children  in those circumstances without losing at least a backpack, let alone a child.One screener was evidently  in charge of ensuring that passengers knew they had to remove those  portable CPAP devices (for continuous positive airway pressure) that have become popular travel accessories  for the growing number of  people  diagnosed with  sleep apnea, a common ailment in which airways tighten, interrupting sleep.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“Take all CPAPs out of your carry-on bags,” the screener kept saying.Behind me a woman put her backpack on the roller belt. Wearing latex gloves, the screener pressed on a small bulge in the backpack.“Is that a CPAP, ma’am? It looks like a CPAP,” the screener said.“It also looks like a chicken sandwich, which is what it is,” the woman replied wearily.In front of me, the pilot’s children were now safely on the other side of the magnetometer. He heaved his own stuff onto the belt and removed his shoes.“I thought you guys didn’t have to take your shoes off if you were in uniform,” I said.He gave me a look and said, “Do not get me started.”On the other side of the magnetometer, there was the usual pile-up that always reminds me of that classic “I Love Lucy”  episode where the assembly line at the candy  factory  flips into warp speed. Bags, bins and laptops piled up while kids and adults hopped on one foot to put on their shoes as screeners scrambled to haul empty bins away.We spend about  $5 billion a year in federal money on airport security. Yes, screeners do good work under tough conditions, and, yes, the Transportation Security Administration is working on better technology for better security.But why do the checkpoints still look like garage sales?“Don’t get me started,” said Ira Weinstein, the president of AIR Inc., a market research and consulting company that works with airports. Evidently it’s the new catch phrase.“There are no standards of furniture or fixtures from airport to airport. It seems to all be under the auspices of the T.S.A. and/or the airport and/or nobody knows,” Mr. Weinstein said, adding: “The furniture is usually folding bridge chairs  —  $59 to $69 a table at Kmart. At some airports, they bought stainless-steel autopsy tables, but they don’t match up either, and you still have people getting fingers bruised or cut as bags pile up or fall off.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

There have been scattered improvements, he said. The Atlanta airport bought tables actually designed to match the X-ray machines. A few airports have sold advertising space on newly designed bins, and some have bought systems to move bins back to the front of the queue so that “screeners who ought to be doing security aren’t working as bin collectors,” he said.Given bare or stockinged feet, the lack of floor mats is also a chronic problem,  Mr. Weinstein said. Matt Blaze, an associate professor of computer science  at the University of Pennsylvania and an expert in security cryptology, agreed.“Somehow we ended up with this cobbled-together mess,” he said. “At the very point in the process at which you have to take your shoes off, that’s where the carpeting ends.”From a customer service standpoint, it’s “infuriating,” he said. But  disorder  also  raises genuine security concerns.“There’s no better place to get away with something than a chaotic environment,” he said.

 On the Road appears each Tuesday. E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page C6 of the National edition with the headline: Bad Enough Being Shoeless But Just Look at This Décor.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage























On the Road
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.








                                Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice            
MAR 30








                                Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers            
MAR 23








                                Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures             








                                PreCheck Expansion Plan Raises Privacy Concerns            








                                In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty            






See More »








Related Coverage







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















