
  




Clear, Which Offered Fast Airport Security Service, Closes - The New York Times





























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Company Closes Its Airport Screening Lines



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Company Closes Its Airport Screening Lines

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJUNE 23, 2009



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








Verified Identity Pass, a company that promised to speed passengers through airport security checkpoints for an annual fee, has shut down. The move leaves some frequent fliers looking for options to avoid long screening lines and wondering what will happen to the personal information that they provided the company.The company said it was not able to negotiate a deal with its creditors. Late Monday, its Clear fast-lane security check service stopped operations abruptly. Some members received e-mail messages about the closing, while others found out at the airport when they discovered Clear lanes were cordoned off.Lois Easton, an education consultant from Boulder, Colo., was turned away by two security officials Tuesday morning from a Clear lane at Denver International Airport. She was headed on a 10-day business trip with stops in Newark and Tallahassee, Fla.“I did buy a three-year membership, so I’m not very happy about all of this,” Ms. Easton said. Nearby, workers were dismantling three Clear screening machines.“I travel a lot for business, often every week,” Ms. Easton added. “It’s in enough of the airports I’m in so it’s worth it. It saves me a lot of time, a lot of stress.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Clear was founded in 2003 by Steven Brill, the businessman behind media ventures like CourtTV and American Lawyer magazine. It originated with a program set up by the Transportation Security Administration called Registered Traveler, intended to shrink swollen security lines in the wake of Sept. 11. Clear operated at about 20 airports and charged users $100 to $200 a year.Mr. Brill, who left the company in February when a group of investors took control of the company, did not  provide any specifics about why the company had shut down.“I can only speculate about the causes of the company’s demise,” he said. “What I do know for sure, however, is that the need for intelligent risk management hasn’t diminished and that programs like Clear should have a role in our future.”Now that the service is defunct, some wonder what will happen to the personal information held by Verified. The company’s Clear service required members’ fingerprints, iris scans and other identifying traits.The shutdown probably means that Clear’s approximately 165,000 members will not get their money back.Last year, the T.S.A. suspended the Clear program temporarily after a laptop containing pre-enrollment records of about 33,000 customers was lost at San Francisco International Airport.The agency requires Registered Traveler service providers, including Clear, to encrypt files containing participants’ sensitive personal information.

A version of this article appears in print on , on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Company Closes Its Airport Screening Lines.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















