
  




Airport Security Can Never Be Perfect, Experts Say - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|By Nature, Airports Have Risks



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
By Nature, Airports Have Risks



On the Road 
By                     
 JOE SHARKEY
 
JAN. 24, 2011




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








How  do you fully secure something as big and sprawling as an international airport against a terrorist bombing like the one on  Monday at Domodedovo Airport in Moscow?You cannot, security experts I spoke with on Monday say. Airports are by definition public places requiring relatively free access.The experts have long contended that serious holes in security at airports have been neglected  while most of the effort and money goes  into looking for weapons on passengers at checkpoints.But they  have also warned that a sensational incident in one place can lead to widespread overreaction and demands for quick fixes.“It always does,” said Bruce Schneier, a security technology consultant and author who has long argued that there is no such thing as perfect security, and that pretending otherwise is foolish.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Douglas R. Laird, a former Secret Service agent and onetime head of security for Northwest Airlines who now operates an aviation security consulting firm, Laird & Associates, made much the same case.“At some point, it needs to be made clear that nothing is 100 percent secure,” he said. “With airports, if you were to build a new terminal from scratch, sure, you could do a better job of anticipating certain security issues.“But still, we’re talking about public areas,” he said. “It doesn’t matter if it’s an airline terminal, a train station or the front of Macy’s  —  as long as you have free access, you’re going to have these potential issues.”One measure already in place that could address threats like the terrorist attack in the Moscow terminal is what the Transportation Security Administration in the United States refers to as a behavioral detection officer program. In the program, plainclothes officers  trained in what the agency calls “nonintrusive behavior observation and analysis” mingle with crowds, looking for signs of potential trouble in physical behavior.The T.S.A. has more than 3,000 behavioral detection officers at 161 of the 450 or so commercial airports in the United States. Usually, they work near checkpoints, but they are also  elsewhere in airport terminals.
Photo







Credit
            Stephen Savage        


A spokesman for the agency, Greg Soule, said passengers may notice “unpredictable security measures in all areas of U.S. airports, including before the checkpoint.” He said the T.S.A. was monitoring reports from Moscow and sharing information with international agencies.Christopher Bidwell, the vice president for security at Airports Council International North America, which represents domestic airports, said airports had regularly assigned local law officers to augment the T.S.A. undercover officers and federal air marshals in terminals.After the Moscow attack, travelers in the United States will quickly see an increase in random security checks “above and beyond the baseline measures currently in place,” he said, including checks in public areas like baggage claim and ticketing.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Airport terminals operate in two zones, the already secure areas and the public areas. As many news reports since the 2001 terrorist attacks have shown, there are problems even in the  secure areas, with poorly supervised access points, as well as inadequate credentialing and monitoring of some airport employees and delivery people.In the public areas, experts say, behavioral detection can be useful as part of a protection program that also includes sophisticated intelligence gathering.For most airports, adding physical security to public spaces is as much an engineering issue as a procedural one, as Mr. Laird pointed out. In places like India, where air travel is growing rapidly and many airports are being built or expanded, new designs allow for stricter access to terminals. Often, people without tickets or reservations are diverted from main terminals.But Joe Brancatelli, the publisher of JoeSentMe.com, a site for business travelers, said, “They’ve merely pushed back the perimeters.” People still have to come to the airport, he said.While technology for detecting explosives is being improved, the main defense is vigilance, despite its limitations. Behavioral detection is a part of the highly regarded Israeli aviation security system, for example, though the Israeli process is time-consuming and perhaps more invasive than would be acceptable in the United States, where more than 1.5 million people a day pass through the T.S.A. checkpoints.Behavioral profiling is “a good idea, assuming it’s done right,” said Mr. Schneier, who nevertheless has serious reservations about how it is being done here. “You can go around looking for people who look suspicious, which works great if you actually know what suspicious looks like, rather than just deciding, this guy dresses funny and his food doesn’t smell right.”Mr. Laird, who retired from the Secret Service in 1989 to become the global head of security at Northwest Airlines, agreed that a cadre of  trained behavioral detection officers can add a layer of security in a place like an airline terminal. But he said the quality of training needed to be emphasized as well as the great difficulty of securing any big public place against terrorists, who can simply choose another site.“Nothing in public is ever going to be anything near 100 percent secure in a free society,” he said. On the other hand, he said, “good, well-trained cops are a little like good lifeguards. You need to have the ability, but what you look for is: what stands out here?”

E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on January 25, 2011, on page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: By Nature, Airports Have Risks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










Blast Strikes Main Moscow Airport
JAN. 24, 2011









After the Bombing, It’s Business as Usual
JAN. 24, 2011


























On the Road
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.








                                Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice            
MAR 30








                                Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers            
MAR 23








                                Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures             








                                PreCheck Expansion Plan Raises Privacy Concerns            








                                In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty            






See More »








Related Coverage







Blast Strikes Main Moscow Airport
JAN. 24, 2011













After the Bombing, It’s Business as Usual
JAN. 24, 2011









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















