
  




Revised Antiterrorism Bill Moves Closer to Approval - The New York Times
































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Washington|Revised Antiterrorism Bill Moves Closer to Approval



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Washington 
Revised Antiterrorism Bill Moves Closer to Approval

By ERIC LIPTONJULY 26, 2007



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Senator Harry Reid, center, joined two fellow Democrats, Senators Charles E. Schumer and Frank R. Lautenberg, to discuss the antiterrorism bill.

Credit
            Susan Etheridge for The New York Times        


WASHINGTON, July 25 — Congress is moving toward approval of antiterrorism legislation that would require a greater share of Homeland Security grants to be based on risk, instead of a political formula, and seeks to tighten security of cargo carried on ships and passenger planes.But Democrats, to ensure passage of the measure, agreed to compromises that diluted some provisions in the legislation, prompting concerns over the effectiveness of some of the promised security enhancements.The compromises were necessary because of a veto threat from President Bush and opposition by Republican members in Congress. The bill, expected to come up for final votes in the House and Senate in the next week, cleared the House in January and the Senate in March but has been stalled until recently.Republicans have claimed that some of the initiatives being pushed by Democrats, such as a requirement that all ship containers headed to the United States from foreign ports be checked for nuclear threats, were impractical and would disrupt global trade.Democrats, struggling to win final passage for at least a few pieces of legislation before the summer recess, agreed to the changes, which will allow them to claim a victory.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“To get a bill passed is an art of compromise,” Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, said in an interview Wednesday. “But I don’t think we weakened our systems of protection in the process.”The so-called 9/11 commission bill would make a major change in the way grants from the Department of Homeland Security are distributed to states. It would cut in half the guaranteed minimum grant, which this year was $3.8 million, that each state would receive, allowing Homeland Security officials to distribute more money in discretionary grants to states where the threat and consequences of a terror strike are deemed greatest.The change in the grant formula moves in the direction advocated by the Sept. 11 commission, whose recommendations were the inspiration for this bill. Still, the minimum amount of grant money set aside for small population states like Wyoming, West Virginia and Montana is 50 percent higher than what the House first proposed when the bill was introduced in January. In past years, officials from some more populous states that were considered likely terrorist targets, like New York, complained that small or rural states collected outsize grants.Democrats also agreed to drop a provision that would have required airport security screeners be given collective bargaining rights like most other federal workers, giving them more power to object to work hours or assignments. The measure had elicited a veto threat from President Bush.And Democrats agreed to a Republican request that broad legal coverage be offered to people who report suspicious activity. The measure was inspired by an incident last year in Minneapolis, where six Muslim men were removed from a flight after a passenger complaint, an action that provoked a lawsuit against the passenger.Some of the most significant compromises necessary to win passage involved cargo screening. For more than two years, Democrats have sought to mandate that all cargo carried by passenger airplanes be inspected for explosives and that ship cargo containers bound for the United States from foreign ports be scanned for nuclear or radiological weapons.The bill still requires that within three years all cargo carried by passenger jets be checked, but the legislation now says it must be “screened” instead of “inspected.”That could mean that as much as 60 percent of air cargo could be exempt from a mandatory physical inspection at airports, under a new program to be called Certified Shipper, said Homeland Security officials who participated in the negotiations.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Companies that participate in the Certified Shipper program would still have to follow security rules, including conducting their own package inspections and putting special tamperproof seals on containers. But packages handled by these companies, which will probably represent the bulk of the air cargo industry, would generally be exempt from mandated electronic, canine or other physical inspections at the airport.Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts and one of the leading advocates for air cargo inspections, said he was pleased with the outcome of the bill and did not consider it weaker than his original goal.“It is a significant increase in the level of security,” Mr. Markey said.But a program similar to Certified Shipper that is used by Customs and Border Patrol for ship cargo has frequently been criticized. Auditors have found that companies in this program are sometimes permitted to move their goods more quickly even though there is insufficient proof that they have a robust security system in place.Meanwhile, the provision to require screening for all ship cargo sets a five-year deadline for the system to be in place globally.But the measure gives the Department of Homeland Security the power to postpone the requirement in two-year increments if a port cannot meet the deadline for several reasons, including a screening system that is ineffective, has too many false alarms or slows the flow of cargo, as well as a port that simply does not have room to install the equipment.Mr. Thompson, the Democratic chairman, acknowledged that the power to waive the requirement weakened the mandate but said Democrats had no choice.After negotiators for both parties reached agreement Wednesday, Republican leaders in the House claimed part of the credit. “Republicans One-Up House Democrats, Claim Victory on Key 9/11 Protection Against Terrorist Activity,” they said in a news release, a nearly certain sign that after months of negotiating, the bill will probably pass with bipartisan support when it comes up for a final vote by the end of next week.

A version of this article appears in print on , on page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Revised Antiterrorism Bill Moves Closer to Approval.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage





















Related Coverage







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















