
  




Homeland Security to Offer Guide to Blocking Hackers - The New York Times




























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|U.S. to Provide Guidelines to Bolster Computer Security



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
U.S. to Provide Guidelines to Bolster Computer Security

By RIVA RICHMONDJUNE 26, 2011



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








The Homeland Security Department plans to unveil on Monday a new system of guidance intended to help make the software behind many services — be they Web sites or power grids — less susceptible to hacking.The system includes an updated list of the top 25 programming errors that enable today’s most serious hacks. To help make the list more useful, it adds new tools to help software programmers eliminate the most dangerous types of mistakes and enable organizations to demand and buy more secure products.The effort to improve software security has been three years in the making, according to Robert A. Martin, principal engineer at Mitre, a technology nonprofit that conducts federal research in systems engineering.The Homeland Security Department’s hope is that the program, which is voluntary, will make it easier for companies and agencies to better secure their corners of cyberspace and contribute to building safer global networks.“We’re going after root cause issues,” said a senior department official, who declined to be named because the announcement of the new plans had not yet been made. “You can make your enterprise more resilient from the people who would attack you.”
Photo






Avoiding common programming mistakes is vital to fending off software hackers, said Alan Paller of the Sans Institute.

Credit
            Peter DaSilva for The New York Times        


The top 25 list was created by the nonprofit SANS Institute and Mitre with the help of top software security experts in the United States and Europe, and it includes programming errors that have been used in a number of recent headline-grabbing hacking attacks.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

For instance, No. 1 on the list is a programming mistake that allows so-called SQL-injection attacks on Web sites, which were successfully used by the hacker group LulzSec. That group was able to use the flaws to cause databases to spit out user names and passwords from Web sites, including one associated with the F.B.I.’s InfraGard program and NATO’s online bookstore.The list also warns about the type of error that allowed hackers to steal several hundred thousand credit card numbers from a Citigroup site recently.The guidance framework will include “vignettes” for industries like e-commerce, banking and manufacturing, and will highlight for them which programming errors are of greatest concern in the types of technologies they use.Companies that make tools to test software for dangerous programming mistakes are already beginning to incorporate the frameworks into their products, said Alan Paller, head of research at SANS. And eventually there will be services that help businesses evaluate whether the software they’re considering buying has stood up to scrutiny.Avoiding common programming mistakes is vital to fending off today’s worst attacks, he said. “This is the only way to get around ‘zero days,’ ” he said, referring to attacks that make use of software vulnerabilities that are unknown and, therefore, cannot be fixed quickly with patches. “The only possible defense is to stop the error from being in the software in the first place.”

A version of this article appears in print on June 27, 2011, on page B7 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. to Provide Guidelines to Bolster Computer Security.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










LulzSec Hacker Group Urges New Cyberattacks
JUNE 26, 2011
























Related Coverage







LulzSec Hacker Group Urges New Cyberattacks
JUNE 26, 2011













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















