
  




U.S. Guidelines Aim to Bolster Software Security - The New York Times
























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|U.S. Guidelines Aim to Bolster Software Security



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
U.S. Guidelines Aim to Bolster Software Security

By RIVA RICHMONDJUNE 27, 2011



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








The Homeland Security Department unveiled a new system of guidance on Monday intended to help make the software behind Web sites, power grids and other services less susceptible to hacking.The system includes an updated list of the top 25 programming errors that enable today’s most serious hacks. It adds new tools to help software programmers eliminate the most dangerous types of mistakes and enable organizations to demand and buy more secure products.The effort to improve software security has been three years in the making, according to Robert A. Martin, principal engineer at Mitre, a technology nonprofit organization that conducts federal research in systems engineering.The costs of flaws or omissions that make software susceptible to attack was highlighted by a number of recent attacks that resulted in the theft of credit card information, user names and passwords from government and banking sites.During an online news conference, government officials pointed out that a wide range of stakeholders had an interest in seeing the top 25 errors addressed, and they stressed the need for better training and education for people writing software.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Officials also noted that organizations are under “persistent” attack.The Homeland Security Department’s hope is that the program, which is voluntary, will make it easier for companies and agencies to better secure their corners of cyberspace and contribute to building safer global networks.“We’re going after root cause issues,” said a senior department official, who declined to be named because he was speaking before the announcement had been made. “You can make your enterprise more resilient from the people who would attack you.”The guidance could spur a long-awaited shift in the technology industry’s approach to computer security, which puts software security at the heart, in the place of network security, said Jeremiah Grossman, chief technology officer of WhiteHat Security, a firm that helps companies secure their Web sites. Many organizations do not recognize that software security should be the focus, he said, “which is why you see the bulk of the security dollars spent on defense flowing to firewall and antivirus products, and precisely why the current wave of breaches keep happening.”Alan Paller, director of research at the SANS Institute, a nonprofit research and education organization, emphasized during the presentation on Monday that it was a “first step” and much work still needed to be done, especially with training.The top 25 list was created by SANS and Mitre with the help of top software security experts in the United States and Europe. It includes programming errors that have been used in a number of recent hacking attacks.No. 1 on the list is a programming mistake that allows so-called SQL-injection attacks on Web sites, which were successfully used by the hacker group LulzSec. That group was able to use the flaws to cause databases to spit out user names and passwords from Web sites, including one associated with the F.B.I.’s InfraGard program and NATO’s online bookstore.The list also warns about the type of error that allowed hackers to steal several hundred thousand credit card numbers from a Citigroup site recently.The guidance framework will include “vignettes” for industries like e-commerce, banking and manufacturing, and will highlight for them which programming errors are of greatest concern in the types of technologies they use.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Companies that make tools to test software for dangerous programming mistakes are already beginning to incorporate the framework into their products, Mr. Paller said before the presentation. And eventually there will be services that help businesses evaluate whether the software they are considering has stood up to scrutiny.Avoiding common programming mistakes is vital to fending off today’s worst attacks, Mr. Paller said. “This is the only way to get around ‘zero days,’ ” he said, referring to attacks that make use of software vulnerabilities that are unknown and, therefore, cannot be fixed quickly with patches. “The only possible defense is to stop the error from being in the software in the first place.”

Christine Hauser contributed reporting.


Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















