
  




T.S.A. Furor Gives Media a False Positive - The Media Equation - The New York Times









































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Media|A Media False Alarm Over the T.S.A.



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Media 
A Media False Alarm Over the T.S.A.



 
 



 David Carr
 


THE MEDIA EQUATION
NOV. 28, 2010





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story










If a squadron of mad scientists surrounded by supercomputers gathered in a laboratory to try to conjure a single news topic that would blow up large, they could not touch the T.S.A. pat-down story.It began with a Drudge Report link to a video on Nov. 13 of an intrusive pat-down, and then leapt to social media and the rest of the Web. Twitter lighted up, flashing 4,000 posts an hour with cheeky hash tags, and in just the first two days of last week, there were 60 million Google queries for information on the change in the Transportation Security Administration protocol, according to Trendrr, a social media measurement company.Soon enough, an online protest calling for a National Opt-Out Day popped up, with a call to refuse to submit to scans and to clog airports on Wednesday, one of the busiest travel days of the year.Cue the media mushroom cloud: by Tuesday, there were print reports about the new scanning technology, heavy-breathing blog posts about the government using the technology to alter or gather DNA (yow), and every cable channel featured wall-to-wall speculation about what would happen when people got to the airport on Wednesday and how many would be carrying lanterns and pitchforks.“This story tapped right into the central nervous system of the collective consciousness,” said Mark Ghuneim, chief executive of Trendrr. “It was huge.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

But then, in the real world, nothing happened.A few passengers opted out and, if anything, lines were shorter because airport security was staffed up and people arrived early just in case.The occasional protester was surrounded not by angry crowds but eager reporters. Under all the buzz, 80 percent of Americans traveling were still encountering the same procedures that have been in place for years. Continue reading the main story







Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





By midday Wednesday, a forlorn CNN correspondent was wandering around during a live shot with nothing to report, with a nearby keening baby the only indication of terminal rage. No word on whether the diaper was breached.The pat-down story was the equivalent of vaporware — it seemed as if something huge was about to happen, but it turned out that it was a story about a story, the noisy, fervent sound of a news system feeding on itself.What made the T.S.A. story so sticky and irresistible, a nearly perfect Perfect Storm?TIMING It arrived during a news season slowed by holidays (how many stories can you do speculating about which turkey will be pardoned by the president?) in the midst of the busiest travel weeks.EXECUTION The government’s below-the-radar rollout of the new protocol (Memo to the T.S.A.: never sneak up on the American public) gave it a conspiratorial sheen.MYSTERY The screening technology seemed ominous, yet cool — like the X-Ray specs advertisements on the backs of comic books  that promised to allow you to see through clothing.DISTRUST OF GOVERNMENT At a time of incredibly fractionalized politics, the pat-down was a single issue we could all rally around. For liberals, it was Big Brother grabbing liberties (with both hands) and conservatives once again felt the intrusive touch of Big Government in their pocket.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Just in case it didn’t seem wasteful enough, YouTube came through with a video of a shirtless child being patted down by a burly security guard.RELEVANCE Many people hate, yet need, to travel by air. And now, once we get through security, we can expect a host of new indignities on the plane (even longer delays, $5 pillows, flights packed like a Japanese subway). By the way, you know who travels a lot? Reporters.NOTHING. AND EVERYTHING. These incremental changes in technology and intimacy of searches may be a step toward the Big Brotherification of American life, but it is just not that big of a deal outside the media bubble. But the issues at hand were momentous: liberty, security and the American way.DISPLACEMENT Deep in their hearts, Americans know that the country has spent almost a decade on a two-front war that has made them feel no safer. Rather than dwelling on the blood and lucre that have been spilled, it’s a little easier to hate on the guy in the blue uniform wearing a cheesy badge and making $15 an hour. Beats thinking the terrorists have won.RACE AND CLASS Even though air travel is far from luxurious, it is a still a big expense during a time of significant economic upheaval, so the people affected tend to be a little better off and more entitled. While many  nonwhite Americans have grown up in a country where they are sometimes searched while merely going about their business — unwarranted stop-and-frisks have gone on for decades — white people aren’t used to having the hands of the state on them without cause. Unfamiliarity breeds outrage.GOOD VISUALS The story has crowds, people in uniforms, conflict and a  familiar backdrop, so TV loved it. And the story kicked out all sorts of juicy links to video, umbrage and polemic, so it was more viral than a sneezing passenger in 16E.In a story like this, the crowd of reporters — in this instance, anybody at an airport with a smartphone — is already deployed. If they hit the sweet spot, like the kid who went through Salt Lake City security in a Speedo, millions will see it via YouTube.GENDER The issue of personal searches and enhanced visibility on scans would seem to be a more acute one for women, given the objectification of women in general and greater history of assault. But discussion on Twitter included two times as many men as women, according to Trendrr. Something primal is at work here, that speaks to both machismo — boys don’t touch boys — and certain male insecurities about being visible to strangers. You thought that dream of being in high school in your underwear was bad.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

I could go on, but you get the idea. A mainstream media that has been run over in the past — the rise of the Tea Party comes to mind — has begun to understand that the Web is a great place to listen as well as publish.“NewsHour” on PBS was among the throngs, with an embeddable widget that let people post to Twitter their experiences in the security lines — so the mainstream media are now on a hair trigger, reacting, and sometimes overreacting, to social media and Web-borne protests.

In a sense, the pat-down is a test of a new kind of emergency broadcast system, a hybrid contraption of old and new media, call and response, a place where protests are lodged, articulated and commenced. No one can argue that this episode made us any safer, but then I’ve yet to hear anything that suggests that the scanners and pat-downs do either.

E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; twitter.com/carr2n
A version of this article appears in print on November 29, 2010, on page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Media False Alarm Over T.S.A.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage





THE LEDE BLOG 

A New YouTube Genre: Airport Screening Videos
NOV. 24, 2010






































The Media Equation
A column from David Carr focused on the intersection of media and technology.








                                Kings of Their Crafts, but on Divergent Paths            








                                Brian Williams, Retreading Memories From a Perch Too Public            








                                Media Titans Murdoch and Bloomberg at Play in Politics and News            








                                Unease for What Microsoft’s HoloLens Will Mean for Our Screen-Obsessed Lives            








                                Why the Oscars’ Omission of ‘Selma’ Matters            






See More »








Related Coverage






THE LEDE BLOG 

A New YouTube Genre: Airport Screening Videos
NOV. 24, 2010









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















