
  




Survey of Executives Finds a Growing Fear of Cyberattacks - The New York Times





























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Science|Survey of Executives Finds a Growing Fear of Cyberattacks



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Science 
Survey of Executives Finds a Growing Fear of Cyberattacks

By JOHN MARKOFFJAN. 28, 2010



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








A survey of 600 computing and computer-security executives in 14 countries suggests that attacks on the Internet pose a growing threat to the energy and communication systems that underlie modern society.The findings, issued Thursday by the Center for Strategic and International Studies and the computer-security company McAfee, echoed alarms raised this month by Google after it experienced a wave of cyberattacks.“One of the striking things we determined is that half of the respondents believe they have already been attacked by sophisticated government intruders,” said the study’s director, Stewart A. Baker. “It tells us that this is a serious problem right now.”More than half of the executives called their own nation’s laws inadequate for deterring cyberattacks. Half identified the United States as one of the three most vulnerable countries; the others were China and Russia.Moreover, the United States was identified most frequently as a potential source of cyberattacks.“When they were asked which country ‘you worry is of greatest concern in the context of network attacks against your country/sector,’ 36 percent named the United States and 33 percent China — more than any other country on a list of six,” the report said.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

China’s security measures also came in for praise from the executives.“It was striking how much of an outlier China is on a number of measures,” said Mr. Baker, a Washington lawyer who formerly served as assistant secretary for policy at the Department of Homeland Security and as general counsel for the National Security Agency. “They have confidence in their government, and they are adopting security measures at a higher rate than other countries.”The report focuses on “critical infrastructure” — essential networks and services that include the financial system, transmission lines for gas and electricity, water supply, and voice- and data-communication networks. At the heart of these systems are networks known as Scada systems, which are the basis for manufacturing, power generation, refining and other basic operations in advanced economies. (The acronym stands for supervisory control and data acquisition.)The increasing use of Internet-based networks “creates unique and troubling vulnerabilities,” the report says. In the past, the data used by such industrial systems was largely carried on proprietary networks that were often better insulated from the outside world.The advantage of the Internet lies largely in the lower cost of developing systems because of the low cost of commodity products. But the report’s authors stopped short of calling for a complete separation between those systems and the open Internet.“Remote access to control systems poses a huge danger,” said Phyllis Schneck, McAfee’s vice president for threat intelligence. “We must either protect it appropriately or move it to more private networks and not use the open Internet.”The report found considerable pessimism among the executives, whose responses were anonymous.“Remarkably, two-fifths of these I.T. executives expected a major cybersecurity incident (one causing an outage of  ‘at least 24 hours, loss of life or ... failure of a company’) in their sector within the next year,” the report said. “All but 20 percent expected such an incident within five years. This pessimism was particularly marked in the countries already experiencing the highest levels of serious attacks.” Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















