
  




Harnessing the Web to Sell Online Security - The New York Times































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|Harnessing the Web to Sell Online Security



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology |                    E-Commerce Report                
Harnessing the Web to Sell Online Security

By BOB TEDESCHIJAN. 29, 2007



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Craig Forman, an EarthLink executive vice president over security sales, among company mail servers in Atlanta.

Credit
            Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times        


THIRTY percent of Internet users still do not trust technology enough to buy something online. But will they use the Web to buy security software?The Internet service provider EarthLink hopes that they will. The company said it would announce new security services today, to be available to both EarthLink users and others, aimed at thwarting new hacking techniques that specialists regard as particularly insidious. The new services could also help EarthLink fortify its flagging bottom line and reduce customer service calls from users afflicted by computer viruses.“The whole axis of the world is moving toward an Internet-based economy,” said Craig Forman, an EarthLink executive vice president, who, among other things, oversees sales of security services. “Security is a critical portion of the success of that economy.”The new feature, called Attack Shield, is a premium offering intended to complement the company’s Protection Control Center security service, which EarthLink subscribers receive free. Attack Shield will cost EarthLink subscribers $24 annually, or $3 a month. Those who are not members, but who pay $36 annually or $4 monthly for the Protection Control Center service, will receive Attack Shield at no added cost.Attack Shield relies on technology from Sana Security, a software vendor based in San Mateo, Calif.,  that specializes in what is known as behavior-based intrusion detection methods. Such programs essentially watch a personal computer for suspicious-looking software  — for instance, applications  hidden in remote areas of the computer that then replicate themselves, or programs that load themselves onto a PC unbidden.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Antivirus software companies like McAfee, Symantec and others, using conventional Internet security methods, find a copy of such a malicious program, identify a signature string of computer code unique to it, then circulate to customers a software application to block programs with that signature.The signature-based approach, though, does little for those who are victimized by a new attack before security companies have had a chance to obtain the program’s signature and circulate an antidote. And because many hackers now are sophisticated financial criminals, rather than the rascals  of old, their programs are more likely to mutate so quickly that the signature they leave on one person’s computer could look nothing like the signature left on someone else’s machine.These new “malware” programs, as they are known in the computer security field, are the most popular distribution method for programs that have turned an estimated 11 percent of the world’s computers into “zombie” machines used in fraud, spam distribution and online identity theft.By opening a new front in cyber crime, hackers have also opened a new market for security companies. This month, Symantec announced a  behavior-based detection technology, called Sonar, to thwart malware intrusions, and analysts said other  companies were working hard to introduce competing technology or refine what they already have.EarthLink has offered Attack Shield on a trial basis since early in the month, according to Mr. Forman, who declined to say how many customers the service had.“Most of the users are EarthLink customers, but we’re very happy with its progress among those who aren’t EarthLink customers,” he said. “This is part of our strategy to widen out the potential universe of folks who EarthLink can reach. And security is a huge part of why our existing members are loyal to EarthLink.”He said the security service was also an important way for EarthLink to increase revenue as it tries to persuade Attack Shield users to become full EarthLink subscribers. The company lost $3.2 million in the third quarter of 2006, the latest quarter for which EarthLink has reported financial results. Revenue increased 4.5 percent over the 2005 quarter, to $331.3 million.EarthLink, like AOL,  has struggled to grow amid heavy competition from cable Internet providers and phone companies. It has had to glean revenue from its 5.3 million existing customers by selling them more services like Internet telephony and online video subscriptions.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Such efforts have paid dividends, Mr. Forman said, as well as the company’s emphasis on selling security services. “Security is very much a moneymaker for us,” he said.According to Andrew Jacquith, an analyst with the Yankee Group, a technology consulting firm based in Boston, the Attack Shield effort is likely to appeal to a small percentage of the market at first, even though he said it was “a step ahead” of other security services in effectiveness and simplicity.“A certain amount of education needs to happen before customers figure out that this is what they’ll want to have,” Mr. Jacquith said. “So having companies like EarthLink behind it will help a lot.” He added that other Internet providers would offer similar services to their customers in the coming months, accelerating the process.The consumer market for security software, which the research firm IDC said reached $1.6 billion last year, has increasingly moved online in recent years, as vendors like McAfee and CA align themselves with Internet service providers to gain market share.Selling software to consumers online is much more efficient than selling through retail stores. But analysts have criticized security vendors for distributing their software through Internet providers. As good as such deals are for gaining new customers, they yield far less revenue for each subscriber  — as little as $3 a customer, by some estimates  — compared with the $30 they can make by selling through a retailer.Sana has no such concerns, because it has traditionally sold to businesses, not consumers. Sana’s revenue was under $20 million last year, according to Timothy Eades, its senior vice president for marketing, though last year’s sales were five times  in  2005.Symantec, one of the biggest security software vendors, also distributes its software through Internet providers, but Erin Hintz, the vice president for  worldwide consumer marketing, said the company had been careful not to give its products away too cheaply.“We’ve been pretty good about striking partnerships where it’s beneficial for both parties, while some of our competitors haven’t,” Ms. Hintz said. Over all, though, consumers have “absolutely shifted more and more online as their preferred buying channel,” she said, as banks and other financial services companies joined Internet providers in selling security software to their customers.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Try as they may, such efforts will do little to attract the nearly one-third of consumers who, according to Forrester Research, are still leery of buying anything online.“That’s why people will often purchase for the first time in a retail store,” Ms. Hintz said. “Then when they renew their subscription, they’re more comfortable doing the transaction online.”

A version of this article appears in print on , on page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: Harnessing the Web To Sell Online Security.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















