
  




For Security Ideas, Ask the Business Traveler - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|For Security Ideas, Ask Business Travelers



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
For Security Ideas, Ask Business Travelers



On the Road 
By                     
 JOE SHARKEY
 
DEC. 28, 2009




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WHEN there is trouble, it sometimes makes sense to listen to the experts.By that I mean hard-core business travelers. I’ve been hearing from a lot of them since that nasty business   on a  Detroit-bound flight from Amsterdam on Christmas Day. Most said the same thing: it’s a mistake to overreact to one incident by ratcheting up security to the point where normal travel is further discouraged. Get some perspective, they said.The one who said it best was Douglas J. Engmann, the president of Engmann Options, a financial services firm in San Francisco, who says he flies about 200,000 miles a year. He contends  that stricter  security screening ordered by the Transportation Security Administration will do little or nothing to shield the air travel system from  terrorism and do a lot to discourage  business travelers from going on  the road.“I was frustrated to read about what I saw as a knee-jerk reaction,” he said.The T.S.A. ordered more thorough screenings of passengers and their belongings, including more physical pat-downs. On international flights to the United States, passengers can expect to be screened  at the  gate.The T.S.A. initially reacted by banning passengers on international flights into the United States from getting out of their seats or having any access to personal belongings  for an hour before arrival time. But on Monday, the agency eased those restrictions, leaving such measures to the discretion of a flight’s captain.Frequent fliers say they understand that a fast, hard tightening of security may be justifiable while the authorities determine whether there is a wider plot. “Right away, you lower the boom,” Mr. Engmann said.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

But adding more disruption to the security process would be a mistake, he said. “It’s not that we don’t adjust. Business travelers are accustomed to knowing the rules and making do with them,” he said. “Yet right now, you have to wonder about the balance between totally inconveniencing the traveling public versus what is the threat.”Kevin Mitchell, the chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, said that “security lines lengthened literally overnight” at airports after the stricter measures were put into place. He said that “extra screening will be a hassle, especially for time-sensitive business travelers.”
Photo







Credit
            Chris Gash        


He also said it was unconscionable that the T.S.A. had not had a permanent director for almost a year. President Obama’s nominee to the post, Erroll G. Southers, has been blocked from confirmation by Senator Jim DeMint, a South Carolina Republican. Mr. DeMint has asked Mr. Southers, a former F.B.I. agent, to clarify his position on whether T.S.A. workers have a right to be unionized. Mr. Southers is currently the assistant chief for homeland security and intelligence at Los Angeles International Airport and a well-known academic authority on terrorism risk analysis.On his Web site,  aviationplanning.com, the airline consultant Michael Boyd summed up the situation   this way: “A clown who was known to be a suspected terrorist is allowed to board a Delta flight at Amsterdam,” and is subdued by passengers and crew when he tries to set off an explosive strapped to his leg. How, Mr. Boyd asked, does ordering an “increase in the pointy-object patrol” rummaging through carry-on bags for screwdrivers, address such an issue?Obviously, the debate about effective security and antiterrorism intelligence  will continue  for some time. So let’s step back and look for some advice from experts like Mr. Engmann.Once the T.S.A. does get a permanent director and a firmer footing, how about asking business travelers to join serious discussions on “how things are really working, and what can be done?” he suggested.“I go through, what, 150 T.S.A. checkpoints a year? People like us, we notice things,” he said. “If you think about it, we’re also the ones who are most at risk, because we’re flying the most. So we’re not ones who want to make it easy for a terrorist to get on an airplane. On the other hand, we’re the ones who have the most experience at going through the checkpoints and observing.”Air travel security is a three-legged stool. One leg is  the effectiveness of the T.S.A; another is the fortified airplane cockpit doors that make it unlikely that terrorists will ever again commandeer a plane as a guided missile;  and the third is vigilant passengers who will fight back, as they did on Friday.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“We’re the first responders, basically,” Mr. Engmann said.  “Passengers stopped and flight attendants stopped this guy from doing more damage.”“In my view, the message going back to Al Qaeda, or whoever, is:  ‘Look, you can try this. But passengers are not going to let you get away with it. And you may want to try to make flying like being in prison for us, but we’re just not going to allow you to do that to us either.’ ”

E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com
A version of this article appears in print on December 29, 2009, on page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: For Security Ideas, Ask Business Travelers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage









FREQUENT FLIER 

Six Days (Out of Seven) on the Road
DEC. 28, 2009













Passengers’ Quick Action Halted Attack
DEC. 26, 2009













U.S. Struggles Anew to Ensure Safety as Gaps Are Revealed
DEC. 28, 2009













Some Easing Reported in New Security Measures
DEC. 28, 2009


























On the Road
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.








                                Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice            
MAR 30








                                Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers            
MAR 23








                                Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures             








                                PreCheck Expansion Plan Raises Privacy Concerns            








                                In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty            






See More »








Related Coverage






FREQUENT FLIER 

Six Days (Out of Seven) on the Road
DEC. 28, 2009













Passengers’ Quick Action Halted Attack
DEC. 26, 2009













U.S. Struggles Anew to Ensure Safety as Gaps Are Revealed
DEC. 28, 2009













Some Easing Reported in New Security Measures
DEC. 28, 2009













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















