
  




Duke Winces as a Private Joke Slips Out of Control - The New York Times


































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Duke Winces as a Private Joke Slips Out of Control



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Duke Winces as a Private Joke Slips Out of Control

By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and LIZ ROBBINSOCT. 7, 2010


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



DURHAM, N.C. — For nearly two weeks, many here on the Duke University campus had been aware of a certain senior “thesis” that a recent graduate wrote, apparently as a private joke, about her sexual exploits with 13 student-athletes.







Then the Internet seized on it. The thesis, written as a 42-page Power Point presentation, went viral. And students here again found their school in the middle of a sex-related scandal and annoyed at the power of the murky, borderless world of the Internet to wreak havoc and tarnish images.“It makes me ashamed that the Duke name is attached to what she’s done,” Nicole Queathem, 22, a senior from St. Louis, said as she sat in the student union. “And it’s the age-old double standard: people are more critical of what she did because she’s a girl.”The woman in question, Karen Owen, 22, who graduated this year from Duke, evaluated what she said were her sexual liaisons with 13 student-athletes during her years at the school, and she prepared a slide presentation, complete with pictures of her subjects and graphs ranking their performance.
Photo






Lucas Zidella, a German student at Duke, said he was amazed at the willingness of Americans to publish very personal details about themselves online.

Credit
            Jeremy M. Lange for The New York Times        


She forwarded this mock thesis in “horizontal academics” to a few friends, who forwarded it to their friends. After percolating within the Duke community for nearly a week, with e-mails reaching alumni overseas and message boards buzzing, the report was published online by two related Web sites, Jezebel and Deadspin. From there, it exploded onto the blogosphere, where as of Thursday it was still being shared via Twitter with the frenzied speed of the Indianapolis 500.The fake thesis made its splash just as concern was raised anew about the power of the Internet to invade privacy and, sometimes, destroy lives. Last month, at Rutgers University, a student surreptitiously recorded his male roommate’s encounter with another man; days later, the roommate killed himself, unleashing a national fury about cyberbullying.“All the world’s a stage in the Internet age,” said Lee Rainie, the director of the Pew Internet and American Life Project. “This is just the latest of a long list of examples of how things that are often meant for small, private audiences have innumerable opportunities to become public events, because once they have left the creators’ screen, they can be shared, forwarded and posted.”Ms. Owen did not respond to repeated calls to explain what happened. A man who said he was her father answered the phone in Connecticut and said that his daughter did not want to comment.On campus, students were abashed, if not a bit fatigued by the notoriety.Just four years ago, the Duke men’s lacrosse team was embroiled in scandal when a woman falsely accused three Blue Devils players of having raped her at a party where she was to perform as a stripper. One year later, the charges against the players were dropped and the prosecutor in the case, Michael B. Nifong, was disbarred.Seven of the 13 athletes Ms. Owen wrote about were — or still are — on the lacrosse team. This incident has angered many of those who are already sensitive to their image, according to students and alumni who know them. The lacrosse players contacted would not comment.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
On campus, other students had plenty to say.Kishan Shah, 18, a pre-med student from Carmel, Ind., said the university should not revoke Ms. Owen’s degree, but “they should let her know that she has disgraced the school.”Mike Lefevre, a 21-year-old senior and the president of the student body, said that people were not sure whom to be more concerned about. “Should we be more worried about the young woman’s privacy or worry about the individuals who were named?” he said. “It’s not so clear to us who was the victim, and who we should reach out to.”
Photo






Nicole Queathem, a senior, said a scandal like the one at Duke reflected poorly on the school.

Credit
            Jeremy M. Lange for The New York Times        


Michael Schoenfeld, Duke’s vice president for public affairs and government relations, said that the education of students about their online presence was continuing, and that it was part of the orientation process for student athletes. “One wonders in the Duke situation if the individuals were not athletes, would it have attracted as much attention?” Mr. Schoenfeld said.It was precisely because the 13 “subjects” in Ms. Owen’s report were athletes that Deadspin decided at first to publish the report with the names. But later it did black them out. A. J. Daulerio, Deadspin’s editor, explained in an e-mail: “We are a sports site and running the names seemed pertinent to the story. Plus, it had been forwarded so many times and shown up on so many message boards that it seemed silly not to run them.“Then I had a change of heart.”Jezebel, a Web site oriented to women, published the list as well. It also published queries from an editor at HarperCollins, meant to be a private e-mail, about contacting Ms. Owen, possibly for a book. Deadspin published queries it got from an agent at William Morris and a movie producer.In 1977, two women at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology published a similar “research,” rating the sexual methodology of 36 male undergraduates.That report appeared in an alternative campus newspaper under the title “Consumer Guide to M.I.T. Men.” The intent was to “turn the tables” on men and show how it feels for women to be objectified. Instead, the two women were put on probation with a notation on their academic record for 10 months.Information, of course, has warped to a new dimension since then.Lukas Zidella, 25, an exchange student from Berlin, said he was  amazed by Americans who seem not to think twice about publishing details of  their personal lives online. “We were shocked by the disregard for the private sphere,” Mr. Zidella  said.Having grown up in the Internet age, students said they were well aware of the dangers.“Everyone knows how the Internet works,” Ms. Queathem said  as she closed her laptop in the student union. “I’ve always been worried about what I put on Facebook. I’m very conscious of future employers looking at it. It’s easy to forget, but important to remember.”


 Correction: October 9, 2010  
A picture caption accompanying an article on Friday about a former Duke  University student who wrote a mock thesis about her sexual experiences  incorrectly paraphrased comments from Lukas Zidella, a German exchange  student. Mr. Zidella said he was amazed that Americans so casually  publish very personal details about themselves on the Web; he did not  say that such an incident would have been no big deal in his own  country. 



Katharine Q. Seelye reported from Durham, and Liz Robbins from New York. Janie Lorber contributed reporting from Washington.
A version of this article appears in print on October 8, 2010, on page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Duke Winces as a Private Joke Slips Out of Control.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















