
  




A Few Solutions to the Working Class Revolt - The New York Times



















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Economy|A Few Solutions to the Working Class Revolt



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/220pvQN




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Economy 
A Few Solutions to the Working Class Revolt



 
 


 Eduardo Porter
 


ECONOMIC SCENE
MARCH 8, 2016



Inside








Photo






Donald Trump in Concord, N.C., on Monday. His voters have eagerly embraced his simple proposal to make things better: walls against the imports and the people they believe have robbed them of a shot at prosperity.

Credit
            Travis Dove for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Can the government help Donald Trump’s supporters?







The political system is in shock at the insurrection of the white working class, which has flocked to Mr. Trump’s candidacy.On the wrong side of globalization and technological change, no longer at home in an increasingly multiethnic America, these voters have eagerly embraced his simple proposal to make things better: walls against the imports and the people they believe have robbed them of a shot at prosperity.That strategy, if it amounts to that, would visit a disaster of epic proportions upon the world economy. It harks back to the Smoot-Hawley tariffs of the 1930s, which pushed the world into a tit-for-tat trade war in which everybody raised their barriers against everybody else’s imports, entrenching the Depression.As Lawrence H. Summers, Treasury secretary under President Clinton and former chief economic adviser to President Obama, warned: “Even the possibility of Trump becoming president is dangerous.”  

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









A Future Without Jobs? Two Views of the Changing Work ForceMARCH 8, 2016











State of the Art: A Plan in Case Robots Take the Jobs: Give Everyone a PaycheckMARCH 2, 2016







But the raw anxiety of his supporters remains unaddressed.
Photo






A career fair in Moline, Ill., in October. Unemployment in the United States might be lower than in many other industrialized nations, but the employment rate for prime age workers has been on downward trend for 15 years.

Credit
            Daniel Acker/Bloomberg        


It is not obvious how to restore the America Mr. Trump’s legions pine for. The nation’s diversity would not go into reverse regardless of how high he built his wall along the nation’s southern border.Their economic discontent — born of the mismatch between expectations based on an earlier America, where plenty of blue-collar jobs offered a decent standard of living, and the more cutthroat reality they face today — can seem intractable, too.“It’s not clear what public policy can do for someone who was expecting his income to grow from $50,000 to $80,000 but instead saw it stagnate at $50,000,” said Lawrence Katz, a Harvard economist.Stumped by the economy’s inability to deliver more decent jobs, policy makers are struggling to come up with solutions.







Economic Scene
A column by Eduardo Porter that explores the world’s most urgent economic challenges.







                                Does a Carbon Tax Work? Ask British Columbia            
MAR 1








                                Nudges Aren’t Enough for Problems Like Retirement Savings            
FEB 23








                                Next Supreme Court Justice Will Be Crucial to Climate Change            
FEB 16








                                Finding Common Political Ground on Poverty            
FEB 2








                                The Dollar Keeps Rising, for Good or Evil            
JAN 26






See More »



The routine promise that economic growth will automatically spread prosperity has proved empty, belied by the long slide in the real earnings of all but the best paid workers.Any long-term strategy to improve workers’ lot, of course, must include improving their skills. But just kicking the challenge down the road under the fuzzy prescription that all America needs is better education and training — a favorite of policy makers and their economic advisers — is no longer acceptable for workers who have suffered multiple rounds of dislocation over several decades.Stepping into the vacuum, the technologically endowed of Silicon Valley are talking about a future that bypasses the labor market entirely. They are offering up a universal basic income — financed by taxing rich capitalists and an elite corps of computer programmers tasked with making sure the robots perform meticulously — as the tool to satisfy people’s basic needs without any work involved.But before we enter the world of science fiction, it’s worth looking at some policies that could improve jobs for most American workers, in the here and now.For all its strengths, the American job market has some troubling features. Unemployment might be lower than in many other industrialized nations, but the employment rate for prime age workers has been on a downward trend for 15 years.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
What’s more, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the research arm for most advanced industrialized nations, the United States suffers the highest incidence of low pay among its members. A quarter of workers earn less than two-thirds of the median wage.Americans also suffer the steepest earnings inequality and limited income mobility. Workers who start with low wages more often get stuck with them for a very long time. And for American men, mobility has declined over time.Instead of enhancing these trends, as it now does, government policy could push back. As Professor Katz noted, over the last few decades, about 13 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product was redistributed to the top 1 percent from the rest of the population. “It is not crazy to suggest,” he said, “that some percentage of that could be shared with a broader group.”The earned-income tax credit — a wage subsidy for low-income workers that has become the nation’s most powerful antipoverty tool — could be expanded to include more workers and phase out at higher incomes. Combined with a higher minimum wage, it could be calibrated to ensure that workers’ earnings totaled, say, at least $15 an hour.Employers could be subsidized, too, to hire workers from problematic populations, including the long-term unemployed. The government could set itself up as an employer of last resort.The Obama administration has been quietly deploying a screwdriver or two from this tool kit. New rules proposed by the White House last year would make millions of workers eligible for overtime payments.The White House also supports increasing the earned-income tax credit for adults without children; so does Paul Ryan, the Republican leader in the House of Representatives.In this year’s State of the Union address, President Obama proposed wage insurance, to protect workers who lost their jobs and had to take new ones for less money. He said that Washington should cover half the difference in pay, up to $10,000 over a two-year period.These proposals represent only a start. They are far from full solutions to the struggling working class.Yet modest though they may be, they are still highly controversial. Indeed, the most critical question is whether politicians divided by an ideological gulf could agree on any effective labor market strategy.The idea of direct government jobs — a once common practice — has been anathema among the American right since the late 1970s. Strengthening American workers’ collective bargaining power, among the weakest in the rich industrialized world, seems equally fanciful.Research by Suzanne Mettler and Julianna Koch from Cornell University underscores how any plan to help Trump’s beleaguered supporters may end up entangled in ideological knots. They found that on closer inspection, many Americans who deny ever benefiting from a government social program actually received far more public support than they realized. And the most strenuous denials come from conservative Republicans.Many citizens of red states and members of the struggling working class — supporters of Mr. Trump, not to mention Senators Ted Cruz of Texas and Marco Rubio of Florida — often oppose programs to benefit “poor people.” Even if the “poor people” these programs would help is them.


Email: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















