
  




A Flying Baseball Bat, a Dad’s Instinct and a Photograph - The New York Times














































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Sports|A Flying Baseball Bat, a Dad’s Instinct and a Photograph



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QJABSY




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Sports 
A Flying Baseball Bat, a Dad’s Instinct and a Photograph

By KAREN WORKMANMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






Shaun Cunningham saved his son Landon from a flying bat during a spring training game in Florida on Saturday.

Credit
            Christopher Horner/Pittsburgh Tribune-Review        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



A father stops a flying baseball bat that was inches away from hitting his son’s face. A photographer captures the moment. You can guess what happens next.







“It’s been crazy,” said Shaun Cunningham, 37, the father from Ocala, Fla., who has been declared a hero in several headlines. “The last 24 hours have been out of control.”The near-hit happened on Saturday while Mr. Cunningham and his 8-year-old son Landon were cheering on the Atlanta Braves in a spring training game in Orlando against the Pittsburgh Pirates.Christopher Horner, a photographer for The Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, took the photo that has ricocheted around the Internet. He was positioned on the third baseline, across from where Mr. Cunningham and his son were sitting, when he saw the bat come out of the hands of Danny Ortiz, a Pirates outfielder. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Fan Injuries Spur M.L.B. to Call for Netting at StadiumsDEC. 9, 2015











Sports Business: Baseball Has a New Policy on Netting, but There’s a CatchDEC. 18, 2015











Ty Cobb Baseball Card Trove Reignites Dreams of Shoebox JackpotsMARCH 7, 2016







Though Mr. Horner knew instantly that he had captured the moment, it wasn’t until he saw the photo on his computer later that he realized how precarious that moment was.“The only thing between the bat and the boy was his father’s arm,” said Mr. Horner, who has been a photographer for The Tribune-Review for 21 years and has covered spring training for a bulk of them.He posted the photo on Twitter that night, but it didn’t gain traction until the following morning.“Before I knew it, my phone was getting hot,” he said. The notifications have been a steady drumbeat since then, keeping him awake Sunday night while he followed the photo’s journey in conversations abroad.It was on Sunday night that the Cunninghams saw the photo for the first time, too.“It made me sick to my stomach,” said Landon’s mother, Ashley Cunningham.During the game, her husband told her that “there was a little bit of an incident” with a bat nearly hitting their son but that everybody was O.K.Mr. Cunningham had some bruising on his arm, but that was the worst of the injuries.Much of the conversation on social media has focused on why the child was looking down at a phone when the bat came flying. Mr. Cunningham said Landon borrowed the phone from him to take a photo of Mr. Ortiz and was texting it to his mother.“So while he was looking at the picture I made sure I was paying attention to everything,” he added.
Continue reading the main story







Get the Morning Briefing by Email
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox. Monday – Friday.




 



Indeed he was. The photographer said the series of shots leading up to the one most widely shared show the father’s instantaneous reaction, amid a wave of raised arms and panicked faces on other fans in the stands around him.“It was his instinct,” Mr. Horner said. “He was on the ball.”But is it really up to fans to be alert to safety hazards?In June last year, a woman struck by a broken bat in Fenway Park suffered what was described as life-threatening injuries. That was among the cases that prompted Major League Baseball to recommend in December that all clubs erect protective netting that extends from the existing screen behind home plate to the closest edge of the dugout.The netting at Champion Stadium did not extend to where the Cunninghams were sitting, a few rows up from the Braves’ dugout on the first-base side, but Mr. Horner described it as typical for a ballpark. A spokesman for the stadium could not be reached.“I made this photo of a guy being a hero,” Mr. Horner said. “But a split second difference and I would have had an image no one would have wanted to see.”Despite the close call, Landon, who also plays baseball, said he had fun at the game. It was his first professional game — a treat for his birthday, which is next week.Landon wasn’t sure what to tell other fans about his experience, but his mother was.“Make sure you pay attention!” she said.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















