



A NATION CHALLENGED -  SECURITY -  Traffic Ban Around the United Nations Is Lifted - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










U.S.





World
 
U.S.
PoliticsEducationTexas 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








A NATION CHALLENGED: SECURITY
A NATION CHALLENGED: SECURITY; Traffic Ban Around the United Nations Is Lifted


By AL BAKER


Published: January 9, 2002









                    New York City scaled back its extensive security around the United Nations on Monday, lifting a ban on car and truck traffic that had been in place since Sept. 11 along part of First Avenue.        

                    A similar scaling back of checkpoints is occurring at other locations, where, nearly four months after the terrorist attacks, security provisions have been re-evaluated in Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly's effort to raise the number of officers assigned to fighting crime.        

                    United Nations officials welcomed the lifting of security measures, which used sanitation trucks filled with sand as barricades.        

                    ''The sanitation trucks stayed for nearly four months and now they have headed out,'' Farhan A. Haq, a United Nations spokesman, said yesterday. ''In fact, from my window the cars are passing right now.''        

                    After Sept. 11, the sanitation trucks had taken up positions along 42nd Street and on First and Second Avenues. Combined with metal barricades, they did sentry duty at the United Nations, particularly during the recent General Assembly, a week of meetings among world leaders, when security was handled by the Secret Service.        

                    Since then, security has reverted to United Nations security forces, the city's Police Department and other agencies, said Brian Marr, a Secret Service special agent.        

                    Also on Monday, for the first time since Sept. 11, northbound traffic on the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive was  allowed to exit at 42nd Street, near the United Nations, a police spokesman said.        

                    Most foreign ministers have now returned home and it is not the busiest of times at the United Nations. But Mr. Haq added that officials were ''still monitoring the possibility of threats to this area.''        

                    The reduced security reflects other changes. Officials also plan soon to reopen City Hall Park.        

                    Security needs have also diminished at Gracie Mansion, because Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has said he intends to continue living at his East Side town house. Security measures have been reduced at the Manhattan Bridge and at southbound thoroughfares along Canal Street.        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Inv1
