
  




A Patient Is Sued, and His Mental Health Diagnosis Becomes Public - The New York Times









































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





N.Y. / Region|A Patient Is Sued, and His Mental Health Diagnosis Becomes Public



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Juhk4M




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



N.Y. / Region 
A Patient Is Sued, and His Mental Health Diagnosis Becomes Public

By CHARLES ORNSTEINDEC. 23, 2015


Inside








Photo






Philip, a New Jersey lawyer, whose name and treatments for mental illness were included in publicly available documents in a lawsuit. The suit was filed by Short Hills Associates, a psychology practice, for an unpaid bill.

Credit
            Richard Perry/The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



When a New Jersey lawyer named Philip received legal papers last year informing him that his former psychologist’s practice was suing him over an unpaid bill, he was initially upset they could not work out a payment arrangement outside of court.







It was only later, Philip said in an interview, that he scanned the papers again and realized something else: The psychology group to which he had confided his innermost feelings had included his mental health diagnosis and treatments he received in publicly filed court documents.The greatest fear of many patients receiving therapy services is that somehow the details of their private struggles will be revealed publicly. Philip, who requested his last name not be used to protect his privacy, said he felt betrayed by his psychologist. He worried that his legal adversaries would find the information and try to use it against him in court.“It turned my life upside down,” he said.Short Hills Associates in Clinical Psychology, the group based in New Jersey that treated Philip, has filed dozens of collections lawsuits against patients and included in them their names, diagnoses and listings of their treatments.
Photo






The offices of Short Hills Associates in Clinical Psychology, in Springfield, N.J.

Credit
            Richard Perry/The New York Times        


In cases in which the patients were minors, the practice sued their parents and included the children’s names and diagnoses.The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the federal patient privacy law known as Hipaa, allows health providers to sue patients over unpaid debts, but requires that they disclose only the minimum information necessary to pursue them.Still, the law has many loopholes. One is that Hipaa covers only providers who submit data electronically — and apparently Short Hills Associates does not.Between 2010 and 2014, Short Hills Associates filed 24 collections cases in which patients’ diagnoses were listed, New Jersey court records show. The defendants included lawyers, business people and a manager at a nonprofit.The suits identified diagnoses by unique codes listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the reference work on mental illness published by the American Psychiatric Association. An online search of the codes quickly provides their meaning.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Short Hills Associates’ managing partner, Barry Helfmann, has been a leader in New Jersey psychology circles. He is a past president of the New Jersey Psychological Association and serves as its director of professional affairs. He has also served on the board of the American Group Psychotherapy Association.In other contexts, Dr. Helfmann has been a champion of patient privacy. In 2010, he was a plaintiff in a lawsuit against two insurance companies and a New Jersey state commission, accusing them of requiring psychologists to turn over their treatment notes in order to get paid.Philip is now countersuing Dr. Helfmann and his partners, the psychology group and the practice’s debt collection lawyers for invasion of privacy, breach of the psychologist-patient privilege, fraud and misrepresentation, and other claims. He is seeking the court’s permission to represent other patients as part of a class action.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Jon, another person being sued by Short Hills Associates for unpaid bills, said he was surprised to learn from a reporter last week that his son’s name and diagnosis were included in court papers.“Our kids learn in school and we’re tasked to drive home to them that everything they do online will remain online forever. And don’t do stupid stuff online,” said Jon, who requested his last name not be published to protect his family’s privacy. “And now to find out that adults aren’t following that practice on their behalf is borderline devastating.”In a deposition taken in November, Audrey Muratore, billing manager for Short Hills Associates, maintained that “it is within my right” to send a bill for debt collection and that once a suit was filed, she did not see the legal papers. “Once they file a suit, it’s out of my hands,” she said.She added that the firm had not filed any additional debt lawsuits since Philip filed his countersuit against them and currently did not have a collection agency working on its behalf.A review of the billing lawsuits filed by another psychology group against patients in New Jersey found that they redacted diagnosis and treatment codes.John Mullahy, a lawyer for Mr. Helfmann and Short Hills Associates, issued a statement in response to questions for this article: “My clients deny and will be vigorously defending against all allegations of wrongdoing here. We cannot and will not comment further given that litigation is pending.”Jeffrey Rothbard, a partner at Rothbard, Rothbard, Kohn & Kellar, the firm that filed the collections lawsuits on behalf of Short Hills Associates, also declined to comment. “I don’t want to start trying this case in the press,” Mr. Rothbard said.Alan Nessman, the senior special counsel of the American Psychological Association, said in a statement that he could not comment on the legal fight in New Jersey. But he said the organization would typically recommend against including patients’ diagnoses and a list of procedures as part of collection suits because it “may be more than the minimum disclosure necessary to obtain payment” under Hipaa and the group’s ethics code.The inclusion of patients’ diagnoses in lawsuits is rare, experts say, but not unheard-of. An Indiana man won a $1.25 million jury verdict in 2010 against his physician group for including his H.I.V. status in a collections lawsuit. Another Indiana resident secured a settlement in 2013 after his H.I.V. status was included in a billing suit filed by his dentist. (In bold, capital letters, his record said, “MEDICAL ALERTS: H.I.V.+ AIDS.”)The man, who asked that he be identified only by his first name, Fred, to protect his privacy, said in an interview that the dentist’s disclosure upended his life. He was given a diagnosis of major depression and takes medications to treat it. “It affects the very essence of who I am,” he said. “It would be tantamount to walking down the street with a sign pointing at me saying, ‘Here it is.’”
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
When Short Hills Associates filed suit against Philip in September 2014, it said he owed $4,400 for meetings from 2012 to February 2014.Philip asserted in legal documents that he confronted Dr. Helfmann in a phone call the following month and that the psychologist told him it was his fault his information was disclosed because he had not paid his bill.In November 2014, Philip’s lawyer obtained a judge’s order directing that the bill detailing his diagnosis and treatment codes be replaced with a document in which that information was redacted.Several months later, Andrew Thomasson, Philip’s lawyer, sent an email to Mr. Mullahy, his counterpart representing Short Hills Associates, listing all the collection cases in which the practice had disclosed patients’ diagnoses. As of Monday, though, the records were still publicly available.Mr. Thomasson said he was particularly concerned about minors whose patient information was exposed.“When they’re grown up, want to get a job with the F.B.I. or the U.S. attorney’s office, they conduct very thorough background checks and they may come across it,” he said in an interview. “It could be used to prevent someone from getting a job one day.”Nevertheless, a spokesman for the New Jersey Division of Consumer Affairs said the inclusion of diagnostic codes in lawsuits did not violate any regulations or statutes for the State Board of Psychological Examiners.Philip filed a complaint in March with the Office for Civil Rights of the federal Department of Health and Human Services, the agency that enforces Hipaa. It included details on his case and others. In August, the agency wrote back to say it was “closing this complaint with no further action.”In an email, Rachel Seeger, a spokeswoman for the office, said the agency “closed this case because we determined that Short Hills Associates in Clinical Psychology is not a Hipaa-covered entity, and therefore we have no jurisdiction to investigate or take any action on the complaint.”The privacy law’s language specifies that it covers only health providers who “electronically transmit any health information in connection with transactions for which H.H.S. has adopted standards.” Doctors who still rely on paper records and paper bills — or clients who pay cash — are not subject to the law.In legal papers, Short Hills Associates has not argued that it falls outside Hipaa’s reach. In fact, on its website it offers patients forms and information that specifically mentions their rights under the law.


Charles Ornstein is a senior reporter for ProPublica, an independent, nonprofit newsroom that produces investigative journalism in the public interest. More on the issue of patient privacy. 
Follow The New York Times’s Metro coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the New York Today newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on December 24, 2015, on page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Patient Is Sued, and His Diagnosis Becomes Public.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















