
  




Ad Watch: Under Armour Trains With Michael Phelps - The New York Times








































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Media|Ad Watch: Under Armour Trains With Michael Phelps



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/21Vy5na




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Media 
Ad Watch: Under Armour Trains With Michael Phelps

By SYDNEY EMBERMARCH 8, 2016


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



For 90 seconds, Michael Phelps’s training regimen is on display: He swims, lifts weights, eats. At one point, he undergoes cupping therapy (seriously, just Google it).The Under Armour ad featuring the Olympic swimmer is an extension of the company’s “Rule Yourself” campaign, which was introduced last year and seeks to shed light on how world-class athletes train. The Phelps spot will be introduced at an Under Armour event in Baltimore on Tuesday and follows the recent release of two other ads in the campaign, one showcasing the United States women’s gymnastic team and the other featuring the young Dutch soccer star Memphis Depay. The creative agency Droga5 is behind the campaign.
Continue reading the main story

"Rule Yourself" Under Armour

The MessageThe overarching goal of the “Rule Yourself” campaign is to promote Under Armour’s training apparel. But the broader message of the campaign’s second installment — whose ads run under the tagline “It’s what you do in the dark that puts you in the light” — is to remind people that success does not come easy, an idea that can get lost in the age of YouTube where stars are seemingly made overnight.“That is the headline we want people to remember: You have to train when no one is watching,” said Adrienne R. Lofton, senior vice president for global brand marketing at Under Armour.The three new campaign spots are shot in plenty of shadow, underscoring the idea that much of the training required to be the best occurs out of the spotlight.Phelps’s spot, set to “The Last Goodbye” by the Kills, is intended to highlight his singular focus as he trains for what may be his last Olympics. The ad was shot in Arizona, where Phelps was training for the Games in Brazil, which start in early August.The RiskIn an attempt to get the biggest bang out of its sponsorship buck, Under Armour is introducing a campaign featuring Olympic athletes like Phelps five months before the Games even begin. Under Armour’s push could be a bit premature and the spots could get lost once the barrage of Olympic-related ads really gets going.Bonus VideoAs part of the campaign, Under Armour is releasing a video of Phelps viewing the ad for the first time. The company brought Phelps and his fiancée, Nicole Johnson, to its Baltimore headquarters on the day before Christmas, where the couple watched the ad with Kevin Plank, the company’s chief executive.How did Phelps respond?In the video, Phelps, whom Ms. Lofton said knew very little about the ad before seeing it, is moved to tears.“That’s insane,” Phelps says.
Continue reading the main story

Phelps' Reaction to "Rule Yourself" Spot Under Armour

In His Own WordsIn a phone interview before a workout in the pool on Monday, Phelps said the spot reflected how hard he works. “I think it shows just exactly what I do,” he said. “It shows what I’m extremely passionate about and I don’t give up. For me, it was incredible.”





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















