
  




Afghan Court Confirms Reduced Sentences in Mob Killing of Woman - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|Afghan Court Confirms Reduced Sentences in Mob Killing of Woman



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QJrrWH




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Asia Pacific 
Afghan Court Confirms Reduced Sentences in Mob Killing of Woman

By ROD NORDLAND and JAWAD SUKHANYARMARCH 8, 2016


Inside










Photo






Muhammad Yaqoub, left, and Zainuddin, two of four men who were sentenced to death for the killing of a woman named Farkhunda, in prison in Kabul, Afghanistan, in October. All four sentences have been reduced to as little as 10 years in prison.

Credit
            Lynsey Addario for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



KABUL, Afghanistan — One defendant was the custodian of a holy shrine who trafficked in Viagra, condoms and pagan amulets, who, found out, falsely accused a young woman named Farkhunda of burning a Quran. Another was an employee from an optician’s shop who joined a growing mob at the shrine and pummeled Farkhunda with a rock the size of a watermelon.







Another was an Afghan intelligence agent who bragged on Facebook that he had the honor of striking the fatal blow against her. Another man drove his car over her, twice. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Women's War: Flawed Justice After a Mob Killed an Afghan WomanDEC. 26, 2015











Kabul Journal: Woman Killed in Kabul Transformed From Pariah to MartyrMARCH 29, 2015







Those men were sentenced to death last year in what briefly looked like a rare moment of justice for Afghan women, and other convictions seemed imminent. But in the months afterward, as detailed in a Times investigation last year, failures at every stage of the justice process surfaced. Clear leads did not turn into arrests, and tough sentences were drastically reduced — including for those four men identified at the center of the violence, who had their death sentences turned into as little as 10 years in prison.
Continue reading the main story
Video

The Killing of Farkhunda


Farkhunda Malikzada, a 27-year-old Muslim woman falsely accused of burning a Quran, was killed by a mob in central Kabul as hundreds watched and filmed. This video contains scenes of graphic violence.

                    By JOHN WOO, ADAM B. ELLICK and ALISSA J. RUBIN on                                                                Publish Date December 26, 2015.
                                    

                                            Photo by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed










Now, Afghanistan’s Supreme Court has confirmed the decision to vacate those four death sentences, and nine other defendants also had their sentences reduced. Word of that decision came late Monday in a restrained announcement by the attorney general, and all day Tuesday it became the inescapable backdrop for International Women’s Day observations in Kabul.The country’s first lady, Rula Ghani, making the keynote address for the occasion before a gathering including many women’s leaders, acknowledged the disappointment and tried to assure the audience that the Supreme Court decision in “the case of our dear martyred Farkhunda” would be reconsidered. And she drew attention to progress for Afghan women under the government of her husband, President Ashraf Ghani. “The reforms brought in the judiciary system are in favor of women,” she said.Still, there was a growing sense of outrage among the women who had gathered to observe the day.“Even if all those involved would be executed, it is still not enough,” said Maryam, a police colonel who leads a human rights office in an elite unit, and who uses just one name.

Of 49 men originally arrested in Farkhunda’s killing, only 13 have so far been given serious penalties — nearly all of them greatly reduced on appeal. All the death sentences were vacated.In addition, many activists claim that some of those most responsible — and identified in cellphone video of the killing — have still not been arrested. “I believe the main perpetrators of this case, those who were behind it, are still not brought to justice,” said a female senator, Anarkali Honaryar.The mob murder of Farkhunda on March 19 last year was initially greeted with public jubilation here, even among many government officials, until evidence mounted that she had been falsely accused. Rather than burning the Quran, she had been working to defend it: She was a devout Islamic scholar who was upset by the shady goings-on at the Shah-Do Shamshira Mosque, one of Kabul’s most popular shrines. Those included un-Islamic practices like fortunetelling and selling amulets, as well as allegations of pimping and prostitution.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Nineteen of the people arrested in connection with Farkhunda’s death were police officers accused of failing to intervene to save her; most of the policemen were given token penalties, such as pay reductions or cancellation of leave time while on duty.Thirty other cases were prosecuted, but 17 of those were dismissed by an appeals court. In the remaining 13 cases, the appeals court recommended the reduction of sentences, leading lawyers representing the victim’s family to appeal to the Supreme Court.

While the court’s decision was made a month ago, according to lawyers for Farkhunda’s family, it was kept secret until a brief announcement late on Monday by the attorney general’s office.Yalda Nasimi, one of the family’s lawyers, said the family would ask the Supreme Court to reconsider its decision, which was apparently what Mrs. Ghani was referring to. Ms. Nasimi said a petition would be lodged with the court within two months.

The controversy surrounding the case led Farkhunda’s family to flee to neighboring Tajikistan, where they remain. “Not only do we oppose the decision of the Supreme Court, but the entire nation is dissatisfied,” said Farkhunda’s brother, Mujibullah Malikzada, reached by telephone in Dushanbe. “I’m not saying that the perpetrators must be lynched the way they lynched my sister. But all I want is fairness and justice, which has not been done.”Hasina Safi, the director of the Afghan Women’s Network, a coalition of advocacy groups, said the court’s decision would not lessen the determination of activists to pursue the case. “We are going to begin again tomorrow to organize on social media, and we are trying to take this case up internationally,” she said. “Justice for Farkhunda is justice for all of Afghanistan’s women.”A coalition of women’s groups organized under the Justice for Farkhunda banner planned to meet late Tuesday to decide how to respond to the Supreme Court decision, according to Nargis Azaryon, an activist with the coalition. “It is obvious that justice has not been done fairly, and we are not satisfied at all,” she said.Many women in government were more circumspect, possibly because of the embarrassment the case has brought to the country at a time when its leaders are emphasizing gains in women’s rights. Five officials of the Ministry of Women’s Affairs who were attending Mrs. Ghani’s speech Tuesday and were contacted in person refused to comment on the Supreme Court’s decision.

Of the four men formerly sentenced to death in the case, three had their sentences reduced to 20 years, including the custodian of the shrine, Zainuddin; the intelligence agent, Sharaf Baghlani; and the defendant who drove his car over Farkhunda’s body, Abdul Basheer.Muhammad Yaqoub, the optician’s employee, had his death sentence reduced to 10 years in prison because the appeals court said he was 17 at the time of the crime. Some activists have disputed that he was underage, however, and the original trial court said his age had been determined from faked documents.Baseer Azizi, the spokesman for the attorney general’s office, said that while the reduced sentences were confirmed by the Supreme Court’s decision, the court had also ordered a review of the other cases that had been dismissed earlier. Most of those cases — believed to number 17, although accounts vary — involved much lesser penalties.


Ahmad Shakib contributed reporting from Kabul, and Alissa J. Rubin from New York.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















