
  




African Union Issues Biting Report on Crisis in South Sudan - The New York Times



































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Africa|African Union Issues Biting Report on Crisis in South Sudan



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1SnNlEk




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Africa 
African Union Issues Biting Report on Crisis in South Sudan

By JEFFREY GETTLEMANFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






Soldiers in the South Sudanese Army in Eastern Equatoria State last year. The report form the African Union has blamed the rebels and government forces for human atrocities.

Credit
            Samir Bol/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



NAIROBI, Kenya — A new report written for the African Union and made public on Monday presented an especially grim picture of South Sudan’s civil war, blaming government forces and rebels for the declining humanitarian situation in the world’s newest country.The nine-page report, written by an evaluation commission for the African Union and dated Jan. 29, listed five violations of a cease-fire agreement, including an episode in October in which government forces were responsible for the deaths of 50 people who died from suffocation inside a shipping container. Investigators said that the rebels had looted United Nations barges and ambushed civilians, killing or wounding about a dozen people in an attack in December.“There is limited consolidation of peace, a worrying economic decline and violence ongoing,” the report said. “The economy is in particularly dire straits, with foreign reserves rapidly diminishing, growing inflation and rapid depreciation of the national currency.”South Sudan, which gained independence from Sudan in 2011, has been steeped in ethnic conflict since violence broke out in 2013. Thousands of people have died; thousands more are on the brink of starvation; and there have been repeated allegations of mass rape, massacres of civilians and forced cannibalism.According to another report prepared by a United Nations panel of experts on South Sudan, both sides in the conflict are trying to build up their arsenals. The government recently bought three military helicopters that have led to “the expansion of the war, and have emboldened those in the government who are seeking a military solution to the conflict at the expense of the peace process,” the United Nations report said.The rebels were also trying to get more arms from “numerous sources, though with comparatively limited success,” that report added.Western powers and the African Union have tried to broker a lasting agreement between the government, which is dominated by the Dinka ethnic group, and the rebels, who are mostly Nuer, but so far the leaders from both sides appear to be opposed to any immediate reconciliation.A veteran American official who has followed the conflicts in Sudan and South Sudan closely for more than two decades said the violence in South Sudan was the worse it has ever been. “I have never seen such brutality and pain,” said the former official, who did not want to be named for fear of disrupting already tenuous negotiations between the warring parties in South Sudan.“There are people on both sides who are reckless and obstructionists,” he added.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















