



AFTEREFFECTS -  SECURITY -  Five Requests to Saudis Went Unheeded, U.S. Says - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










World





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








AFTEREFFECTS: SECURITY
AFTEREFFECTS: SECURITY; Five Requests to Saudis Went Unheeded, U.S. Says


By DOUGLAS JEHL and DAVID E. SANGER


Published: May 16, 2003









WASHINGTON, May 15— 
                    In the month before Monday's bombings in Riyadh, the United States asked Saudi Arabia on at least five separate occasions to deploy armed uniformed government guards around all Western targets of a possible terrorist attack, Bush administration officials said today.        

                    Among those requests, the officials said, was one by Stephen J. Hadley, the deputy national security adviser who was diverted to Saudi Arabia during a trip to Moscow and Israel and was instructed by the White House to meet directly with Crown Prince Abdullah, the kingdom's day-to-day leader.        

                    ''We needed to underscore the seriousness of the message that they had to wake up,'' said one senior official. Yet neither that request, delivered on Saturday, May 3, nor any other was fully heeded by the Riyadh government, the officials said. The Saudi authorities did nothing to augment security at any of the sites, including the three housing compounds struck on Monday night, the administration officials said.        

                    The Saudi ambassador to the United States said today that his government ''did what was needed'' in response to American requests.        

                    Referring to one site in particular, the ambassador, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, said in a television interview from Saudi Arabia that the Saudi security agencies ''came to the conclusion that they had adequate measures there.''        

                    ''There is no 100 percent security when a determined, crazy, evil person is determined to die,'' Prince Bandar said on ABC's ''Good Morning America.'' ''But what we can do, however, is to pursue them vigorously, and when we get them, we bring them to justice, try them, and punish them swiftly and harshly.''        

                    At no time did the United States specify which sites it wanted guarded, American officials acknowledged.        

                    The Bush administration officials who offered the detailed account today said they wanted to make clear that a request to the Saudis that was disclosed on Wednesday by Ambassador Robert W. Jordan had not been isolated. American envoys, who also included J. Cofer Black, the State Department coordinator for counterterrorism, had repeatedly urged action and shared with the Saudis specific intelligence pointing to the danger of an imminent attack.        

                    The Saudi officials told the Americans they would do what they could, but also pointed out that there were hundreds of such potential Western targets in the kingdom and asked for more information. In the end, an American official said, ''it doesn't appear they did anything to augment security.''        

                    Several officials said today that the administration was constantly debating whether the Saudi government would respond better to quiet pressure -- like Mr. Hadley's unannounced visit, first reported on Wednesday night by ABC News -- or the prospect of public criticism.        

                    The administration officials said they were speaking today out of a conviction that disclosure of the details might prompt the Saudis to cooperate more closely in the investigation into the attack and other possible terrorist plots. The officials and others said that American concerns about other attacks, possibly in the Middle East, Africa or Asia, had surged in recent days.        

                    Tonight, for example, the State Department warned that it had received an unconfirmed report of a possible terrorist attack in the Al Hamra district of Jidda, Saudi Arabia. While it said it could not ''certify the credibility of the threat,'' it was advising American citizens to be vigilant. It also said that some members of the American Consulate and their families had relocated to quarters outside the district.        

                    More broadly, the United States concerns have focused on what officials called specific and credible information that terrorists with shoulder-fired weapons might try to attack a Western airliner in Kenya, the site of a similar attempt earlier this year. The warnings today persuaded British Airways to announce the cancellation of its flights to Kenya.        

                    There are also renewed concerns about the Philippines, whose president, Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, is due in Washington for a state dinner on Monday to celebrate cooperation with the United States in counterterrorism.        

                    American officials said the precise nature of the attacks in Riyadh, at a time when American officials believed they were succeeding in reining in that organization, have raised questions about terrorist threats today.        

                    ''We had done a pretty good job on Al Qaeda; we'd dismantled a lot of their infrastructure,'' one American official said. ''So what's happening here? Did we only dismantle a portion of their infrastructure? Are new people emerging to fill in the ranks? Or are ne'er-do-wells stepping in the name of Al Qaeda, but who are not really Al Qaeda?''        

                    The last American request was delivered to the Saudis on May 7, the day after the Saudis discovered a weapons cache that included hundreds of pounds of explosives at a site in Riyadh just 400 yards away from a compound called Jedawal that was home to many Westerners.        

                    Mr. Black, the top counterterrorism official at the State Department, made his first trip to Saudi Arabia in that role in early January. A second trip followed on April 15, when he warned Prince Muhammad bin Nayef, the third-ranking official of the Interior Ministry, that a terrorist strike in the kingdom ''was now just a matter of time,'' an administration official said.        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Inv1
