
  




After Retrial, Brooklyn Teenager Is Convicted in Fatal Shooting on Bus - The New York Times





































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





N.Y. / Region|After Retrial, Brooklyn Teenager Is Convicted in Fatal Shooting on Bus



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1nBdIZV




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



N.Y. / Region 
After Retrial, Brooklyn Teenager Is Convicted in Fatal Shooting on Bus

By ASHLEY SOUTHALLFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






Kahton Anderson was taken to his arraignment in 2014. An earlier jury couldn’t reach a decision last year on a murder charge.

Credit
            Paul Martinka/Splash News        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



A Brooklyn teenager who opened fire on a crowded New York City bus during a gang turf war two years ago, killing a 39-year-old immigrant who was an unintended target, was convicted of second-degree murder on Monday.A jury delivered the guilty verdict against the boy, Kahton Anderson, 15, in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn. Justice Dineen Riviezzo set sentencing for Mr. Anderson, who faces 15 years to life in prison, for Feb. 18Mr. Anderson, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, was retried in the March 2014 death of Angel Rojas, a shooting that raised concerns about how a petty turf war involving teenagers could lead to such random, deadly violence. An earlier jury could not reach a decision last year on a murder charge but found him guilty on some lesser charges, including criminal possession of a weapon. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    





Partial Verdict for Teenager Whose Stray Bullet Killed Man on Brooklyn BusAPRIL 30, 2015







Teenager Whose Stray Bullet Killed Man on Brooklyn Bus Goes on TrialAPRIL 13, 2015







The defense and prosecutors in the new trial agreed that Mr. Anderson pulled out a revolver and opened fire on three rival gang members aboard a crowded B15 bus during the evening rush. He fired a single shot that missed the intended targets and struck Mr. Rojas, a fruit vendor, in the back of the head.
Photo






Angel Rojas, 39, was killed.


The retrial focused on Mr. Anderson’s state of mind, and whether he believed rival gang members were about to attack him.Mr. Anderson, a member of the gang Stack Money Goons, argued that he had acted in self-defense against the other gang that he said had shot at him earlier in the day. He said he had taken the bus to avoid stepping on turf belonging to the Twan House gang, but he encountered three members on the bus, where they approached him. He pulled a silver .357 revolver from his backpack and fired a single shot.The jurors did not accept that defense on Monday, convicting him of second-degree attempted murder, first-degree attempted assault, first-degree reckless endangerment and first-degree criminal use of a firearm. The rival gang members had fled the bus after the shooting, and Mr. Anderson had pursued them and continued firing until he emptied the gun.At the time of the shooting, Mr. Anderson was an eighth grader student at Middle School 57, where he was a popular student and a forward on the basketball team. He lived in an apartment with his mother, who is a United States Postal Service letter carrier.Mr. Rojas, a Dominican immigrant, was working two jobs and was on his way home when he was shot. He was married and had a son and a daughter.His widow regularly attended both of Mr. Anderson’s trials and testified against him.“Angel Rojas was an innocent and hardworking man who came to our country to pursue the American dream,” Ken Thompson, the Brooklyn district attorney, said in a statement. “All of that was tragically and brutally taken away from him in an instant by a teenager caught up in the gang culture and the random and senseless gun violence that it spawns. Hopefully, this conviction will bring his shattered family some solace.”


Follow The New York Times’s Metro coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the New York Today newsletter.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















