



AFTEREFFECTS -  SECURITY -  2 More Servicemen Killed In New Attacks in Baghdad - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










World





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








AFTEREFFECTS: SECURITY
AFTEREFFECTS: SECURITY; 2 More Servicemen Killed In New Attacks in Baghdad


By SUSAN SACHS


Published: May 9, 2003









BAGHDAD, Iraq, May 8— 
                    Two American servicemen were killed and a third injured in separate incidents today, a deadly reminder of the dangers facing both occupation forces and ordinary Iraqis in a country where the only surplus commodities are weapons.        

                    A sniper killed one of the Americans in east Baghdad, according to the Pentagon. The second, a member of the Army's V Corps, was shot and killed while directing traffic on a bridge.        

                    The third serviceman was injured when his Humvee ran over a land mine that had been buried, apparently the night before, in a median strip between the lanes of a busy expressway near the airport.        

                    Lt. Gen. David D. McKiernan, the commander of allied ground forces in Iraq, did not comment on the incidents in a meeting today with reporters. But he warned that his available troops could not guarantee absolute security in a country the approximate size of California.        

                    ''We now have 150,000 coalition forces across Iraq,'' he said. ''Ask yourself, could you secure California all the time with 150,000 soldiers? The answer is no.''        

                    The sheer volume of weapons in the hands of civilians -- everything from rifles and grenades to mines and rocket-propelled grenade-launchers abandoned by the Iraqi Army -- has surprised the country's new American administrators.        

                    ''This whole country was an armed camp,'' said General McKiernan.        

                    In Baghdad, a sprawling city of about five million, the Army still has only a skeleton crew of lightly armed local law enforcement officers to help maintain order.        

                    Fewer than half the city's 4,500 patrolmen and traffic officers have returned to their jobs, leaving many neighborhoods prey to roving gangs of car thieves and robbers who take what they want at gunpoint.        

                    The police force, lacking a senior command structure and still regarded with fear by many citizens conditioned by the brutal rule of Saddam Hussein, has also been badly demoralized.        

                    Most police officers who came back to work found their station houses looted of case files, weapons and furniture. Furthermore, they have yet to receive either a salary or the emergency payment of $20 each promised by the American occupation forces. The criminal court system, mistrusted as an instrument of Mr. Hussein's repression, is largely paralyzed, with just two of the city's courtrooms opening for business for the first time today.        

                    In any case, the patrolmen spend most of their time simply guarding their buildings because they are badly outgunned. The American military permits the police officers to carry only pistols, not their usual Kalashnikov rifles, while open-air gun markets in the city sell the rifles to anyone who has the asking price of about $75.        

                    ''What can we do when we're not even allowed to carry anything but pistols?'' said Detective Ahmed Shihab, a 12-year veteran of the force who returned to work at the 21st precinct in the Gazaliya neighborhood in west Baghdad. ''The people we see on the street trying to steal cars are carrying Kalashnikovs.''        

                    Some police stations have been taken over by American soldiers who have been trying, with the help of interpreters, to operate joint patrols with the local officers and to respond to reported crimes.        

                    But with the jails in most stations destroyed in the postwar fury of attacks on government buildings, they can do little more than briefly detain suspects or confiscate their weapons.        

                    ''We have limited resources and my soldiers are infantrymen, not police officers,'' said Capt. Joseph Escundon of the 82nd Airborne Division, who supervises the 30 soldiers and 25 Iraqi police officers in Gazaliya, an area with a population of about 100,000.        

                    Even in the best of situations like Gazaliya's, where Iraqis and Americans police a beat together, mutual misunderstandings and divergent styles diminish the efficiency of these law enforcement odd couples.        

                    That was illustrated today when the men of the Gazaliya station responded to a complaint from a neighborhood woman that her son, Ali, was threatening to kill her with his Kalashnikov rifle.        

                    Fourteen American soldiers in combat gear piled into the two available 5-ton open-bed trucks. Two Iraqi police officers, a translator and several officers in a Humvee led the way as the convoy rushed to the scene.        

                    Barreling off on a short cut, one truck became mired in mud, and half the soldiers had to run through a rutted field and squeeze through a narrow opening in a fence to catch up with their colleagues. On they jogged, past curious Iraqis and, at one point, a wedding party complete with a three-piece marching band.        

                    At the suspect's house, the force found their man. He was unarmed.        

                    ''Give us your weapons before we take you to Kuwait,'' Detective Shihab shouted in Arabic to Ali.        

                    Ali's younger brother finally led them to a ditch behind the house filled with greenish water. The missing rifle, he said, was in there.        

                    One soldier ordered the brother to pull the gun out. Another ordered, ''Don't let him touch it.'' On the roof of the house, a third soldier pointed his gun at the boy and screamed: ''Let him get the gun! I've got him.''        

                    A dripping rifle was finally pulled from the water. Another was found hidden in the weeds nearby. Ali, his hands bound behind his back with plastic handcuffs, was loaded into the Humvee and driven to the station where Detective Shihab asked his American partners what to do with the prisoner.        

                    As he left, Ali shouted in Arabic to his brother, ''I'll get you, and I'll get your mother, too!''        

                    No one bothered to translate that for the Americans. But a second Iraqi police officer, Sgt. Ayed Kathar Washi, heard it and fretted.        

                    ''When he's released, he can come and attack me because I live around here,'' he said. ''If I had my gun, if I had a government, I'd have support.''        

                    While many Iraqis said they thrill at the occasional sight of American G.I.'s in battle gear patrolling their streets, they have also been caught in similarly explosive confrontations with jittery soldiers who try to be crime-busters.        

                    On Wednesday, for example, a small Army patrol responded to a report that a bus was being robbed in downtown Baghdad. Witnesses pointed out two men who were running from the scene and when the officers began to chase them, the men turned and fired pistols at the bus.        

                    In the confusion that followed, the soldiers pointed their weapons at the crowd of Iraqis trying to explain to them in Arabic what had happened.        

                    Nervous, baffled and sweating under the weight of their combat gear, the younger soldiers began shouting obscenities in English and shoved one man to the ground before a commander pulled them away.        

                    American officials in Baghdad said they hoped to bring in a contingent of military police officers to supplement the soldiers and help train the Iraqi police force.        

                    Some political leaders, who have installed their own well-armed militias in compounds around the city for personal protection, offered the American administrators of Iraq their help during a meeting today to finalize a plan for creating an interim Iraqi national assembly.        

                    Jalal Talabani, leader of the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, said today he could provide 10,000 Kurdish police officers from the areas under Kurdish control in northern Iraq. But he said General McKiernan has not responded to the offer.        

                    Photos: Joint patrols with G.I.'s and Baghdad police officers have produced some familiar scenes and some Keystone Kops scenarios. At top, a woman appealed to a policeman not to beat her son. American soldiers studied a wanted poster for fugitive Iraqis, and guarded a man who had hidden his AK-47 in a ditch. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Inv1
