



AFTEREFFECTS -  DOMESTIC SECURITY -  New Agency Sets Ethics Rules To Avoid Conflicts of Interest - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










World





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








AFTEREFFECTS: DOMESTIC SECURITY
AFTEREFFECTS: DOMESTIC SECURITY; New Agency Sets Ethics Rules To Avoid Conflicts of Interest


By PHILIP SHENON


Published: May 3, 2003









WASHINGTON, May 2— 
                    The Department of Homeland Security said today that it was establishing ethics rules to ensure that lobbyists with personal connections to Secretary Tom Ridge and other senior officials would not receive special favors from the agency.        

                    Department officials said that the rules have been under discussion for months, that they would be similar to conflict-of-interest rules at other federal agencies and that the details would be supplied to Congress when the rules were completed.        

                    In testimony to Congress on Thursday, Mr. Ridge said he was aware that several of his former aides at the White House and on his staff when he was the governor of Pennsylvania had recently registered as domestic security lobbyists.        

                    ''I might say that I have known those people for a long time,'' he said, asked about an article in The New York Times that disclosed the lobbying activities of his former aides.        

                    ''But they've also known me for a long time, and if they learned one thing in our relationship, it's that the personal side won't do them any good unless they've got the best product for this country,'' he said.        

                    At the hearing of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, Mr. Ridge said that ''one of the first responsibilities'' of the department's general counsel would be ''our own internal code to deal with potential conflicts.''        

                    He added: ''I think it's very appropriate that the department have its own set of internal guidelines relating to ethics and conflicts, and we will.''        

                    At least four of Mr. Ridge's senior aides at the Office of Homeland Security in the White House now work for firms seeking to capitalize on the booming niche of the Washington lobbying business that is focused on domestic security -- and on winning contracts from Mr. Ridge's new, multibillion-dollar agency.        

                    Another former aide, Mark Campbell, Mr. Ridge's former chief of staff in the governor's office, has also registered as a domestic security lobbyist in Washington and travels here regularly from his home in Pennsylvania.        

                    Brian Roehrkasse, a department spokesman, said the ethics rules for the new department were still under discussion. ''We do have an ethics program and we are beginning to move forward on other components of it,'' he said. ''A lot of this is not complete, which is not surprising for such a new agency.''        

                    He said that the rules would aim for ''evenhanded'' treatment of companies seeking to sell the department their products or services.        

                    Lobbying registration forms filed in Congress show that Mr. Ridge's former aides are lobbying on behalf of a variety of companies and industries that want domestic-security contracts from the government, including Tyco Electronics and SAP, the European software maker.        

                    Mr. Roehrkasse said he believed the department would move quickly toward completing the new conflict-of-interest rules once the Senate confirms Joe E. Whitley, a former senior Justice Department official who has been nominated as the department's first general counsel.        

                    Even as he questioned Mr. Ridge at the hearing about the lobbying activities of his former aides, Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, repeatedly praised Mr. Ridge for having set ''a very high ethical standard'' at the new department. ''We have great confidence that that will be maintained through those guidelines,'' he said. ''We know you well enough to believe that deeply.''        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Inv1
