



AFTER THE WAR -  SECURITY -  G.I.'s Turn Over Policing of Iraqi Town to Local Force - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










World





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








AFTER THE WAR: SECURITY
AFTER THE WAR: SECURITY; G.I.'s Turn Over Policing of Iraqi Town to Local Force


By SHAILA K. DEWAN


Published: July 12, 2003









FALLUJA, Iraq, July 11— 
                    The new Iraqi police force in this restless town west of Baghdad threatened to quit on Thursday unless American forces allowed them to do their jobs alone.        

                    In response, the American authorities agreed to reduce the number of their soldiers at the Falluja central police station from more than 20 to 1 or 2. As of this evening there were a half-dozen troops at the station, a military spokesman said.        

                    Also on Thursday, three soldiers were wounded at a base in Samarra in the latest of a series of increasingly serious attacks, said the spokesman, Capt. Jeff Fitzgibbons. One Iraqi was also hurt, but the cause of his injuries was not clear, he added.        

                    Captain Fitzgibbons said the weapons used against soldiers had gone from light arms to rocket-propelled grenades to improvised explosives to mortars, which require training to use. It is difficult to pinpoint where the mortar rounds are being fired from, he said. ''It shows that the enemy is getting more sophisticated,'' the captain said.        

                    The police officers staged a peaceful protest march from the police station to the town hall, where they confronted a representative of the allied forces with their demand. It came less than a week after seven police recruits in nearby Ramadi had died in an explosion, making clear the risks of working with the American military as local frustration over the occupation grows.        

                    ''They only bring trouble,'' said Hikwat Ubaid, a lieutenant in the Falluja police force, which has made joint patrols of the town with the American soldiers. ''We don't want to see them. They do nothing here. They go out at night and they get attacked.''        

                    Other officers said that the Americans were incapable of understanding their culture and that they did not want even one officer at the police station. ''All of these people are our families, our relatives,'' said Haqi Ismail Daoud, 21. ''We know them better than the Americans. We know the tribes and the mosques. And the people see us as collaborating with the Americans, and we're not.''        

                    The police station has taken fire several times in recent weeks, officers said, and on the night before the protest, rocket-propelled grenades were fired in the vicinity.        

                    But Lt. Col. Eric Wesley, the executive officer of the Second Brigade of the Third Infantry Division, said his forces would continue training and equipping police officers and security guards, and sending reinforcements when necessary.        

                    ''They want to continue with the cooperation,'' he said of the police. ''They just want more autonomy.'' He added that the Iraqis would begin patrolling by themselves on Monday.        

                    Colonel Wesley called the withdrawal of allied forces a step toward transferring power back to Iraqis.        

                    ''We want Iraqis to take a greater and greater responsibility in Iraq,'' he said, ''and this is a demonstration of that, albeit somewhat awkward, given the means they used to do so.''        

                    He said withdrawal from the town center had begun before the protest. Earlier this week, soldiers cleared out of the former Baath Party headquarters next to the town hall, and today the tanks and other armored vehicles that once patrolled the area were gone. Half of the 22 sites requiring a 24-hour guard, including the police station, the Falluja Dam and the local bank, were already turned over to the Iraqis, he said.        

                    Falluja has been a stronghold of anti-American resistance in the heavily Sunni Muslim area northwest of Baghdad. In late April, soldiers killed 17 people at a demonstration during which they said shots had been fired from the crowd. Last week, part of a mosque compound was destroyed when bomb makers working inside accidentally detonated one of their devices, Americans said.        

                    Asked if reducing forces in the town created an opportunity for insurgents to organize, Colonel Wesley said American intelligence and security forces based in a camp outside Falluja would remain. ''There are a lot of different answers to that question,'' he said. ''You could see it as good in some ways, because you have indigenous forces dealing with indigenous issues. If, however, there is any kind of corruption in the police force, it could make matters worse.''        

                    Photo: Ali Hassen, center, and some of his fellow officers at a police station in Falluja. American soldiers are reducing their role in patrolling the town. (Matt Moyer/World Picture News, for The New York Times)    Map of Iraq highlighting area of concentrated violence, and areas of isolated violence.        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Inv1
