
  




An Aggressive Atlético Madrid Runs Out of Tricks in Barcelona - The New York Times


































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Soccer|An Aggressive Atlético Madrid Runs Out of Tricks in Barcelona



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Q39wZW




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Soccer |                        Global Soccer                                    
An Aggressive Atlético Madrid Runs Out of Tricks in Barcelona

By ROB HUGHESJAN. 31, 2016


Inside








Photo






Coach Luis Enrique of Barcelona reacting after Lionel Messi was kicked hard and high by Filipe Luís of Atlético Madrid. Filipe Luís received a red card, and Barcelona was able to come from behind to claim a 2-1 victory at home.

Credit
            Manu Fernandez/Associated Press        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



LONDON —  Barely a week goes by without Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo scoring. They share more than 1,000 goals, and their careers are far from over.







But if there is one aspect that we too seldom acknowledge, it is the sheer courage they possess to be such outstanding players. There are opponents who would cut them down without a second thought, and that happened on Saturday when Atlético Madrid defender Filipe Luís kicked Messi so high and so hard on his knee that it could have knocked the star out of the game for months. Permanently, even.The referee red carded Filipe Luís. Later, a second Atlético player, Diego Godín, was sent off for his second yellow-card foul.Barcelona wasn’t allowed to be at its fluent best at home, but it still came from a goal down to win, 2-1, in front of 94,990 at the Camp Nou.The result put Barcelona three points clear of Atlético in La Liga, with the Catalan team having played a game less. And in recent years, these games, along with the Clásico involving Barcelona and Real Madrid, have decided who wins the Spanish title.Messi scored on Saturday; of course he did. And he played the full game despite that horrendous tackle before halftime.The coaches, both combative players in their day, reacted differently when questioned by reporters after the game. Barcelona’s Luis Enrique was incensed, saying that he was shocked by a dangerous foul.Atlético’s Diego Simeone saw nothing he could reproach Filipe Luís over. “Not in any way” he told reporters. “It was an incident in the game and the referee interpreted it as he did.”Simeone added: “I’m proud of the team that I have. We played a great first half, except for those 10 minutes when Barça pressed us and scored two goals. Even with nine men on the field, we still maintained our way of playing.“You can win or lose,” he concluded. “I prefer losing like this every time.”Atlético’s website followed Simeone’s lead, calling the game an “Honorable Defeat at Camp Nou.”Honor is a matter of opinion. The referee, Undiano Mallenco, was swift and decisive in meting out those two red cards, along with three more yellow cards, to Atlético players. He issued none to Barcelona, even though Madrid’s Augusto Fernández was the one player to be badly injured Saturday — he was taken off on a stretcher with, of all things, a knee injury.Yet how often in the past have we praised the organized and wholehearted way that Atlético, despite its comparatively meager payroll, has taken on the big two clubs in Spain, Barcelona and Real Madrid?The team reflects Simeone’s energetic approach to the game, with players putting everything they have into each performance. Until recently, Simeone has been constantly mentioned as a possible manager for Chelsea in the Premier League, though the word now is that Chelsea’s owner, Roman Abramovich, is looking for someone more inclined toward adventurous soccer than the uncompromising Simeone, whose teams fight and scrape for points.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
This might be less than fair. Simeone competes with what Atlético can afford, and the club frequently sells the best players he has developed to Europe’s biggest clubs.Chelsea has been a repeat customer of Atlético’s, with its biggest purchase being the striker Diego Costa. It also acquired Filipe Luís in 2014, only to send him back after one season.Simeone’s forte is demanding and — more often than not — getting more out of players than other coaches are able to. He is right for Atlético because the club represents the more earthy side of Madrid, less swaggering and more blue-collar than Real.And under Simeone, Atlético has thrust itself between Barcelona and Real at the top of the standings. In doing so, it has at times skirted the border on what is physically acceptable during play and what is not.The way that Atlético rocked Barcelona in the first quarter of Saturday’s game was, to use Simeone’s word, impressive. Atlético took the lead on an immaculate volley by Koke after a low cross from Saúl.But then in a sign that things were heating up, two of Atlético’s experienced enforcers, Godín and Gabi, were yellow carded within one minute of each other.The game was turning in Barcelona’s favor: Andrés Iniesta was producing a sparkling quick step, Messi was roaming with intent and Luis Suárez and Neymar were elusive up front.And the fullbacks, Dani Alves on the right and Jordi Alba on the left, were making penetrating runs down the flanks. A sharp exchange of passes let Messi score after 30 minutes, followed by Suárez eight minutes later.Shortly after that, the Atlético player Juanfran was lucky to receive only a yellow card for his scything hack at Neymar’s calf. That was followed by Filipe Luis embedding his studs into Messi’s knee.Even though it was down to 10 men, Atlético started the second half as it did the first half — aggressively. Twice in a matter of minutes, Atlético’s Antoine Griezmann bore down on the Barcelona goal, only for the keeper Claudio Bravo to thwart him both times, once while diving the wrong way.Playing one fewer player, Atlético dared to be the more aggressive team until a reckless sliding foul by Godín into the ankles of Suárez left the Madrid club short two players.Indiscipline wrecked Atlético’s chances for a win, while self-preservation was perhaps Barcelona’s main motive on Saturday as its players kept the ball, and their limbs, out of harm’s way rather than pursue more goals.


A version of this article appears in print on February 1, 2016, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















