
  




An Eye on Streamlining Security - On the Road - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|A Partnership Aims at Streamlining Security



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
A Partnership Aims at Streamlining Security



On the Road 
By                     
 JOE SHARKEY
 
MARCH 12, 2012




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








CLEAR, the company that provided expedited airport security clearance to travelers who agreed to background checks, went out of business with heavy debts in 2009 — dashing expectations that private enterprise would soon become a major partner with the government at airport security checkpoints.But under the new owners who bought Clear out of bankruptcy in 2010, the service is starting to expand aggressively again. The new Clear is proposing a pilot program with the Transportation Security Administration that would rejuvenate the idea of partnerships between private enterprise and the government in air travel security.Clear now operates at two terminal locations each at the Orlando, Fla., and Denver airports. By early May, according to Caryn Seidman-Becker, the company’s chief executive, Clear lanes will be open at two additional airports, San Francisco and Dallas-Fort Worth. It has a list of 25 major airports where it hopes to establish a network of Clear lanes.Airports have financial and logistical enticements to work with Clear. The company shares revenue from its members’ fees with airports. A special Clear lane arguably eases overall congestion at security checkpoints while raising money and providing a service for which time-pressed business travelers, who cringe at long security lines, are willing to pay $179 a year.“We paid Orlando in the first year close to a million dollars, and delivered a much better experience to their customers,” said Ms. Seidman-Becker, a prominent hedge fund manager and a co-founder of Alclear Holdings. Alclear bought the old Clear’s assets, including its signature kiosks and special technology, for about $5.7 million in bankruptcy court.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Clear’s verified-identification process uses sophisticated iris and fingerprint biometrics to prove that the holder is actually the person identified on the card. Members also provide personal background information as part of the so-called trusted-traveler concept.Security experts consider a biometrically encoded card to be a virtually foolproof means of identification. In addition to the card, the agency would also have adequate background information on you to assess your potential threat. Clear’s owners and supporters said they believed that this should qualify you to become eligible for the T.S.A.’s own new expedited security program, PreCheck.
Photo







Credit
            Chris Gash        


That remains to be seen. As I reminded Ms. Seidman-Becker, the T.S.A. set up a roadblock on the original version of Clear and it is still in place. That is, Clear members basically get a head-of-line pass — up to the T.S.A.’s checkpoints. This saves time in airports, like Orlando’s, with unpredictable surges of leisure traveler crowds. But once they pass through the Clear lane, their special status disappears. They go through the same security procedures at checkpoints as any other traveler.Clear and its supporters see a way around that roadblock with the T.S.A. PreCheck pilot program, which provides expedited security to some passengers selected from among the most frequent fliers, whose profiles are best known to airlines. The agency has said it is evaluating ways to expand that program to enroll more low-risk travelers.Clear, along with the American Association of Airport Executives and the U.S. Travel Association, has sent a joint proposal to the T.S.A. for a test program to “increase the pool of travelers” by making Clear’s existing members eligible for screening under programs like PreCheck, “provided those members meet other eligibility criteria as established by T.S.A.”With nearly 200,000 members, including those who were re-enrolled from the bankrupt company’s base, “Clear will scale quickly, and on a national level, at no cost to the U.S. government,” according to a draft of the proposal.In a recent interview, John S. Pistole, the agency’s administrator, said: “We have received an unsolicited proposal that is being reviewed right now. I’m open to that, if there is a way of a company doing something that is no-fee to the taxpayers, and provides some level of confidence that the persons signing up are not likely to be terrorists.”Ms. Seidman-Becker said that Clear could prove itself a viable partner, especially as new technology is developed to enhance the T.S.A. systems without adding costs to taxpayers.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“When Administrator Pistole comes in and shows a real forward-looking attitude like that, we applaud it,” she said. “ I believe you have to put the investment and the infrastructure ahead of the idea, and we had to rebuild the integrity and the brand integrity” of Clear. The company’s former iteration went out of business abruptly, with no refunds to existing members.“Obviously, we are working closely with them,” she said of the T.S.A. “We love that they’re trying new things. We’re a company based on innovation, so we feel very aligned.”

E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com 
A version of this article appears in print on March 13, 2012, on page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: A Partnership Aims At Streamlining Security.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story






















On the Road
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.








                                Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice            
MAR 30








                                Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers            
MAR 23








                                Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures             








                                PreCheck Expansion Plan Raises Privacy Concerns            








                                In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty            






See More »







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















