
  




Another Trusted Traveler Program to Be Tested - On the Road - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Trying to Revive Trusted Traveler Program



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Trying to Revive Trusted Traveler Program



On the Road 
By                     
 JOE SHARKEY
 
JULY 18, 2011




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








LIKE most business travelers, I’d welcome the opportunity to provide the government with some basic information to indicate that I am not inclined to acts of terrorism, and in turn to receive a special pass that lets me get through airport security with my shoes on and my personal dignity relatively intact.Yet it’s demonstrably easier said than done to come up with a so-called trusted traveler program, which would give expedited security treatment to travelers who essentially obtain a checkmark of approval in advance of their flight from the Transportation Security Administration. And there are critics who claim it shouldn’t be done anyway.For over a decade, such initiatives have foundered, whether proposed by the government or initiated by private enterprises.For example, there was Verified Identify Pass, which spent millions to install its Clear checkpoints in two dozen airports, and then went out of business in 2009 when it became apparent that the ID cards, encoded with each member’s biometric data, offered little more than a head-of-line pass through security. Clear is now under new ownership that is trying to rejuvenate the program.Meanwhile, John S. Pistole, the head of the T.S.A., is taking another run at a federally managed trusted traveler program. Last week, he said the agency would start a test program this fall of a “risk-based, intelligence-driven” security system that would provide preapproved passengers with boarding passes encoded with personal identification information, allowing them to use special checkpoint lanes in which procedures would be “expedited.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The agency has not described exactly what “expedited” security would entail, but in the past trusted-traveler proposals have been predicated on the presumption that approved passengers would receive quicker, less intrusive screening, including benefits like not having to remove their shoes, if reliable technology were developed. All of the proposals, including the current one, would still subject approved passengers to basic security checks.
Photo







Credit
            Chris Gash        


Like his predecessor, Kip Hawley, Mr. Pistole has spoken often about his determination to have the agency focus more on smart security intelligence, and less on obsessively searching for prohibited “things” while inspecting passengers and their possessions at checkpoints.Again, that’s easier said than done — in part because Congress and the news media routinely let out mighty wails denouncing the T.S.A. after any publicized breach of basic checkpoint scrutiny, even if it is inadvertent.“If some poor schlep brings something through by mistake, that’s exactly the wrong thing we should be worried about,” said Joshua Schank, the president of the Eno Transportation Foundation, which focuses on transportation policy. At checkpoints, “there is no human being on earth meant to stare at an X-ray machine or watch people go through metal detectors all day, with the vigilance of being able to catch that one-in-a-bazillion person who might have something dangerous,” he said.Every security expert I know discounts the likelihood of anyone commandeering an airplane with a possession like a weapon, though there is deep concern about the dangers of nonmetallic explosives being used to blow a plane or planes up. Since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, cockpit doors have been secured against intruders, and crews and passengers alike beat the stuffing out of any passenger crazy enough to try to rush the cockpit.“Identity-based screening is another common-sense step in the right direction as we continue to strengthen overall security and improve the passenger experience whenever possible,” Mr. Pistole said.In the test phase of the new program, the agency said it would compile “prescreening assessments” on passengers who agreed to volunteer more information about themselves before flying. The volunteers will be selected mainly from among Delta Air Lines frequent-flier members who use the Atlanta and Detroit airports and American Airlines frequent fliers at the Miami and Dallas-Fort Worth airports.Of course, any trusted traveler program is predicated on a kind of elite notion that those who fly the most tend to be more trustworthy than everyone else. And that raises its own issues.“I have never been a big fan of it because the trusted traveler presumes that we have to treat anyone who isn’t a trusted traveler like a potential criminal,” Mr. Schank said.

Email: jsharkey@nytimes.com 
A version of this article appears in print on July 19, 2011, on page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Trying to Revive Trusted Traveler Program.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story






















On the Road
A collection of “On the Road” columns published in The New York Times.








                                Thoughts at the End of the Road, and a Word of Advice            
MAR 30








                                Longer Flights From La Guardia Might Be Mixed Blessing for Passengers            
MAR 23








                                Smaller Airports Struggle Against Big Airports’ Lures             








                                PreCheck Expansion Plan Raises Privacy Concerns            








                                In Homeland Security Funding Standoff, Business Travelers Face Uncertainty            






See More »







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















