
  




China Says Pastor Suspected of Misappropriating Funds - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|China Says Pastor Suspected of Misappropriating Funds



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KkPVYT




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Asia Pacific 
China Says Pastor Suspected of Misappropriating Funds

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 2:15 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



BEIJING —  China's state-sanctioned Protestant church body says a pastor in a province where authorities have been cracking down on churches is under investigation for suspected misappropriation of funds.The Zhejiang province branch of the Three-Self Patriotic Movement said on its website Monday that Gu Yuese was also accused of other unspecified economic crimes.The notice expressed "deep shock and regret" over the news and said Gu's alleged crimes were his personal behavior and unconnected to the movement in general.In an apparent attempt to allay doubts about their allegations, it urged parishoners to be "clear-headed" about the developments and said all were equal under Chinese law.Gu has openly opposed the provincial government's destruction of church crosses and other outward symbols of the Christian faith.His Chongyi Church in the provincial capital of Hangzhou is among the largest in China. Calls to the church on Monday rang unanswered.The website notice did not say when or where Gu was detained, and people who took calls at its office said they had no additional information about the case.However, the U.S.-based support group China Aid said Gu's family had last week received a notice that he had been placed under "residential surveillance in designated location," usually a precursor to formal arrest. It said his wife, Zhou Lianmei, had also been taken away and their home searched.Gu's arrest marks a "major escalation" in the government's campaign against those who opposed the cross demolitions, China Aid said.While authorities have long targeted unsanctioned "house churches," the current crackdown is remarkable because it involves members of the usually compliant official religious bodies. Gu had served as provincial head of the movement's official sister body, the China Christian Council, as well as a member of its standing committee at the national level.The cross demolitions, many in the city of Zhejiang that has a thriving Christian population, targeted both Catholic and Protestant churches, drawing a rare protest from priests outside local government offices.The move against the churches comes amid a sweeping campaign against those the ruling Communist Party sees as its opponents. Among those swept up are lawyers and others who have attempted to use Chinese law to assert personal rights, as President Xi Jinping seeks to reinforce the party's absolute authority in fields ranging from national defense to higher education.Rights activists and democracy campaigners say is the most intense crackdown on dissent since the bloody suppression of 1989 pro-democracy protests in which hundreds, possibly thousands, were killed.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















