
  




Sabathia Goes 2 Hitless Innings as Yanks Lose to Marlins 1-0 - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Baseball|Sabathia Goes 2 Hitless Innings as Yanks Lose to Marlins 1-0



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1UbX0gc




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Baseball 
Sabathia Goes 2 Hitless Innings as Yanks Lose to Marlins 1-0

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 8, 2016, 4:10 P.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



JUPITER, Fla. —  CC Sabathia spent four hours on the team bus to make his spring training debut.The outing went much quicker.Sabathia pitched two hitless innings Tuesday for the New York Yankees, who lost 1-0 to the Miami Marlins.Sabathia threw only six pitches in the first, all strikes. The lone baserunner against him was Chris Johnson, who walked on a 3-2 pitch with two out in the second.The trip Monday evening to Florida's east coast from the Yankees' complex in Tampa took a lot longer."That bus ride was terrible," the 35-year-old Sabathia said with a slight smile. "I'm too old to be riding on the bus, man. Maybe I'll take a helicopter next time."Sabathia gave his pitching better reviews. It was his first outing since he entered an alcohol rehabilitation program last October."Got some quick outs, quick swings, threw everything, so it felt good," he said. "I felt good just to get back out there. It's fun to be competing again, and it went well."Aaron Hicks two of the Yankees' five hits, including a double. Luis Cessa pitched two hitless innings.Miami had only two hits, both in the seventh. Don Kelly singled and scored on a two-out single by Johnson.Marlins starter Tom Koehler allowed three hits and a walk in three scoreless innings. David Phelps, a contender for the rotation, threw two scoreless innings.Brad Hand, Mike Dunn, Craig Breslow and Dustin McGowan each pitched one hitless inning. A spot in the Miami bullpen became open with the loss of right-hander Carter Capps, who was to undergo Tommy John surgery Tuesday.STARTING TIMESabathia threw 25 pitches, 16 for strikes."He threw the ball extremely well," manager Joe Girardi said. "He located extremely well, and that's what we wanted to see. He's throwing it where he wants to, and he's got movement."Sabathia struck out Christian Yelich and Martin Prado."He kind of mowed us down pretty good," Miami manager Don Mattingly said.TRAINER'S ROOMYankees: LF Brett Gardner, who stayed behind in Tampa, took 31 swings during his first full on-field batting practice session since bruising his left wrist in last year's AL wild-card game loss to Houston. ... 2B Starlin Castro took batting practice one day after having a root canal.Marlins: Slugger Giancarlo Stanton missed his second game in a row because of a sore right knee. He worked out before the game and ran, threw and hit."We're just testing it to see where it's at," president of baseball operations Michael Hill said. "We'll see how the knee responds."Stanton will not play Wednesday but is expected to work out again.ON THE SCHEDULEThe Yankees will play exhibition games against the Marlins in Miami on April 1-2.UP NEXTMarlins: LHP Adam Conley is scheduled to start Wednesday against the Cardinals in Jupiter.Yankees: They remain on Florida's east coast for a game Wednesday, with RHP Ivan Nova scheduled to make his second spring training start at the Mets.Sabathia planned to return to Tampa ahead of his teammates."I'm going back tonight — not on the bus," he said.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















