
  




Reeling Phoenix Suns Fire Coach Jeff Hornacek - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Pro Basketball|Reeling Phoenix Suns Fire Coach Jeff Hornacek



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1nzz9dZ




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Pro Basketball 
Reeling Phoenix Suns Fire Coach Jeff Hornacek

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 10:39 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



PHOENIX —  Jeff Hornacek was fired Monday as coach of the Phoenix Suns, who are mired in one of the worst stretches in franchise history.The Suns said an interim coach would be in place by Tuesday. Assistant coaches Corey Gaines, Earl Watson and Nate Bjorkgren are to be interviewed Monday, a person with knowledge of the situation told The Associated Press. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the plans had not been announced.The team's two most experienced assistants, Jerry Sichting and Mike Longabardi, were fired in late December following a home loss to Philadelphia, the 76ers' first road win in 24 games.Hornacek coached the Suns for 2 1/2 seasons. His team had lost 10 of 11 games and 19 of its last 21. At 14-35, Phoenix's record is tied for fourth worst in the NBA and is headed for a franchise-record sixth consecutive season without making the playoffs.Phoenix plays its next five games, and nine of its next 10, at home. The Suns host Toronto on Tuesday night.This year's team was expected to contend for the playoffs, but there were problems from the start when forward Markieff Morris said he wanted to be traded after the team dealt twin brother Marcus to Detroit in the offseason.The Suns' best player, Eric Bledsoe, tore knee cartilage in that loss to Philadelphia and is out for the season. Point guards Brandon Knight and Ronnie Price also have been sidelined with injuries in recent weeks.That left youngsters Archie Goodwin, Devin Booker and T.J. Warren in starting roles. The team's top free-agent acquisition, center Tyson Chandler, has battled injury problems and has not been the veteran help the team envisioned.And the losses mounted at an alarming rate.The firing came after Phoenix's 91-78 loss at Dallas Sunday night, the Suns' 14th straight defeat on the road, tied for second longest in franchise history.General manager Ryan McDonough on Tuesday is to discuss developments and has said he expects the team to be active leading to the NBA's Feb. 18 trade deadline.The dismissal of Sichting and Longabardi, Hornacek's top two assistants, leaves no obvious choice as interim coach.Gaines is former coach of the WNBA's Phoenix Mercury. Watson was an NBA point guard for 13 seasons and is in his first season with the Suns after a year as an assistant coach of the Austin Spurs of the NBA Development League. Bjorkgren was named assistant coach/player development director of the Suns this season after one season as head coach of the Bakersfield Jam, Phoenix's D-League affiliate.Hornacek got off to a good start in his first head coaching job. Phoenix won 48 games in 2013-14, 23 more than the previous season, and just missed making the postseason. Hornacek was runner-up to Gregg Popovich for NBA coach of the year. But last season, the team slipped to 39-43.Hornacek was a Jazz assistant coach before being hired by the Suns. He played 14 seasons in the NBA, averaging 14.5 points as one of the league's best shooters.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















