
  




UN Rights Chief: Turkey Must Probe Shooting of Civilians - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Europe|UN Rights Chief: Turkey Must Probe Shooting of Civilians



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KRHb7k




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Europe 
UN Rights Chief: Turkey Must Probe Shooting of Civilians

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 7:06 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



GENEVA —  The U.N. human rights chief called on Turkey on Monday to investigate the alleged shooting of unarmed people in southeastern Turkey that turned up in "extremely shocking" footage posted online last week.Zeid Raad al-Hussein also voiced concern over reports that the cameraman, Refik Tekin, faces arrest over possible charges of membership in the banned Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, when he leaves a hospital where he is treated for gunshot wounds sustained in the shooting in the southeastern town of Cizre.Turkish authorities have imposed curfews in Cizre and other towns and districts to flush out militants from urban areas in Turkey's mostly Kurdish southeast since the collapse in July of a peace process with the PKK. The Turkish Human Rights Foundation says at least 198 civilians, including 39 children, have died in combat areas under curfew since August.The video in question purportedly shows people wheeling a dead body on a handcart behind a man and a woman who are waving white flags, before they are apparently being targeted by gunfire. Tekin, who works for the pro-Kurdish IMC television, continues to film despite being hit and blood is seen streaming past his camera.The video doesn't show who fired the shots but earlier footage had shown a Turkish armored military vehicle at a distance blocking the road. It wasn't known if anyone was killed in the shooting.In a statement released in Geneva, Zeid said: "filming an atrocity is not a crime, but shooting unarmed civilians most certainly is.""The emergence of this video raises major question-marks about what exactly has been going on in Cizre and other parts of southeastern Turkey which the security forces have allegedly sealed off from the outside world," he said.Mehmet Elkatmis, a member of Turkey's Ombudsman Institution which deals with human right complaints, said he hadn't seen the video, but said it was "not possible for the Turkish security forces to fire on civilians."Elkatmis said the security forces were "acting with utmost sensitivity" not to harm civilians. He acknowledged that "some undesired" incidents have occurred during the security forces' operations, but said these were being investigated.Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmus has said the security forces are taking care to "distinguish between the terror organization and the civilians and to ensure that the battle is being waged within the rule of law."The government has vowed to keep up its operations until the militants, who are linked to the PKK, are rooted out from the urban areas. The PKK is considered a terrorist organization by Turkey and its Western allies.The curfews bar independent observers from monitoring the conflicts zones, which has heightened concerns over human rights abuses, including the fate of some 20 people who were reportedly wounded during fighting in Cizre a week ago and were allegedly trapped inside a basement awaiting medical treatment.Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu and other authorities have said medical teams are unable to reach the building where the wounded are stranded because of attacks by militants, including sharpshooters.A pro-Kurdish party has suggested that it is attacks by the security forces that are preventing the medical teams' access to the wounded. It said it lost contact with the wounded Saturday and three legislators from the party have embarked on a hunger strike to draw attention to their plight.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















