
  




The Latest: Church, Mosque Demolished at Calais Migrant Camp - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Europe|The Latest: Church, Mosque Demolished at Calais Migrant Camp



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Q6xZhd




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Europe 
The Latest: Church, Mosque Demolished at Calais Migrant Camp

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 11:36 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



BERLIN —  The Latest on the huge influx of asylum-seekers to Europe (all times local):







5:35 p.m.French authorities have demolished a makeshift church and mosque at a camp in Calais populated by thousands of migrants.A regional official said the operation Monday was the culmination of a two-week effort to clear a 100-meter security zone around the perimeter of the camp. The official said authorities the migrants and charity groups helping them were informed Jan. 19 of the pending demolition, and that no one was hurt in the operation.The pastor for the church clashed with police holding riot shields as excavation machines crushed the simple structure, leaving an empty muddy field beneath.The regional official, who wasn't authorized to be publicly named, said the mosque had already been abandoned and no one protested its dismantling. He said migrants are free to build new places of worship.--By Angela Charlton in Paris___4:20 p.m.In a protest that has gone viral online, Greek soccer players sat down on the field over the weekend to protest the growing death toll of refugees trying to reach the Greek islands from nearby Turkey.Players from second-division host team Larissa and away team Acharnaikos, from near Athens, sat down for two minutes after the match started and supporters of both clubs clapped during the protest.Despite the winter weather, 58,000 refugees in January traveled in smugglers' boats across choppy seas to Greece and over 100 of them drowned.In a statement Monday, Acharnaikos said "it was just two minutes out of the match between Larissa and Acharnaikos. It cost us nothing, but we hope with all our hearts that it rattles those responsible for this unspeakable tragedy."___1:10 p.m.Germany's interior minister is meeting officials in Kabul as his country tries to reduce the number of Afghans heading to Europe and considers how to get some of those who have arrived to return home.Thomas de Maiziere's ministry said he visited Afghanistan Monday to confer with Afghan officials on longstanding efforts to train Afghan police and on the migration issue.Afghanistan was the second-biggest single source of new arrivals in Germany last year, after Syria. Out of nearly 1.1 million people registered as asylum-seekers, more than 150,000 came from Afghanistan.De Maiziere told German news agency dpa that the security situation in Afghanistan is "complicated" but "there are unsafe and safe areas." He said the aim is to make "people stay in Afghanistan and rebuild the country."___12:05 p.m.The United Nations' top human rights official says the assaults a month ago in Germany that have been blamed largely on foreigners must not be used as a reason to stigmatize migrants in general.The New Year's Eve sexual assaults and robberies in Cologne have heightened tensions over Europe's migrant influx. Zeid Raad al-Hussein, the U.N. high commissioner for human rights, said Monday that suspects must be investigated but "what we do not want to see is the stigmatizing of an entire people because of those actions."
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Zeid said he is "deeply disturbed" by some European politicians' rhetoric over migrants.He says "it is utterly unacceptable that politicians can be so grossly irresponsible in pointing to the failings, entire failings of a state, and placing them on the shoulders of those who have suffered enough."___              10:05 p.m.Germany's labor minister is threatening to cut benefits for migrants who don't want to integrate into German society.Germany registered nearly 1.1 million people as asylum-seekers last year. Integrating those who are allowed to stay into society and the labor market will pose a major challenge in the years ahead.Labor Minister Andrea Nahles wrote in Monday's edition of the daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung that "all people who live in Germany, no matter what their ethnic origin, must make an effort, seek work and support themselves and their families as well as they can."Nahles says "we will cut benefits to those who signal that they do not want to integrate." She said that could be measured by willingness to abide by German society's rules and to take language classes.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















