
  




Oil and Gas Companies Lead US Stock Market Lower - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|Oil and Gas Companies Lead US Stock Market Lower



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1nyEHWe




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Asia Pacific 
Oil and Gas Companies Lead US Stock Market Lower

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 12:25 P.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



NEW YORK —  Stocks were moderately lower in afternoon trading Monday as the price of oil took another tumble amid renewed concerns about the Chinese and U.S. economies.KEEPING SCORE: The Dow Jones industrial average lost 76 points, or 0.5 percent, to 16,389 as of 1:30 p.m. Eastern. The Standard & Poor's 500 index lost eight points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,932 and the Nasdaq composite lost 11 points, or 0.4 percent, to 4,603.OIL PROBLEMS: Crude oil went lower again after posting solid gains last week. The price of U.S. benchmark oil plunged $2.24, or 6.7 percent, to $31.37 a barrel in New York. Natural gas also fell about 7 percent.Energy stocks fell in tandem with oil and gas prices, and the energy component of the S&P; 500 lost 3 percent. Southwestern Energy declined 32 cents, or 4 percent, to $8.57, Transocean dropped 60 cents, or 5.9 percent, to $9.82 and Chesapeake Energy fell 19 cents, or 6 percent, to $3.20.With the price of oil down sharply, "it's not surprising ... to see the broader U.S. market following suit," said Ryan Larson, head of U.S. equity trading at RBC Global Asset Management. "And you've got China and emerging market slowdown worries again. It's more of the same of what caused the market to sell off in January."CHINA MANUFACTURING: Global stocks and oil prices started to decline after a Chinese factory purchasing manager survey fell to 49.4 in January, the lowest level in more than three years. It's the latest sign of weakness for the world's second-largest economy. Numbers below 50 indicate contraction. Chinese stocks closed down 2 percent on the news.FACTORY WORRIES: The economic data out of the U.S. did not help investor sentiment either. A survey of manufacturing activity in the U.S. came in at 48.2, below economists' analysts.RECOVERING FROM ILLNESS: Chipotle Mexican Grill rose $17.36, or 4 percent, to $470.33 after news reports said federal regulators planned to declare the E. coli outbreak at the restaurant chain to be over.TWITTER CHATTER: Twitter jumped $1.42, or 8 percent, $18.22 following reports that the company is in talks with private equity firms to possibly acquire or invest in the Internet company.HEALTH CARE MERGERS: Shares of Alere jumped $16.81, or 45 percent, to $54.01 after Abbott Laboratories announced it was purchasing Alere, a health care company focused on diagnostics, for $5.8 billion. Abbot Labs shares rose 20 cents, or 0.2 percent, to $38.05.BONDS, CURRENCIES: U.S. government bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.95 percent. The dollar fell to 120.92 yen from 121.10 yen on Friday. The euro strengthened to $1.0897 from $1.0829.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















