
  




NFL Using Videos on Tablets at Pro Bowl - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|NFL Using Videos on Tablets at Pro Bowl



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Q6H2Pe




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
NFL Using Videos on Tablets at Pro Bowl

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 7:18 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



The NFL allowed coaches and players to use video on the Microsoft Surface tablets rather than just still photos for the Pro Bowl in Honolulu on Sunday.A perfect opportunity to experiment with changes, the Pro Bowl is where the lengthier extra-point kicks were first tried."That was pretty nice, because we usually just have the SnapChat pictures that we use," Tampa Bay quarterback Jameis Winston said of the availability of videos, "but to actually have the video on there was very useful. It was very helpful."Videos were available during preseason games last summer and generally met with strong support from players and coaches."We went to Microsoft, which developed a system we are testing today for all coaches and players to see how they like it, and how they work it into the game," said Michelle McKenna, the NFL's senior vice president and chief technology officer. "Microsoft has provided an amazing device to stand up to (weather challenges). We learned a lot about how we have to standardize it on every sideline, have a standard setup for technology."It has been very successful so far," she added of the use of still photos on the sideline tablets. "When you roll out any technology, you want to make sure it works. If you go to the trouble of planning a game around it, make sure (everyone) knows how to use it. It was slow acceptance at first, but this year, nearly every player and coach was using it to pinch and zoom and illustrate. A great teaching tool, and video, it is the next step."We will always try to evolve the sideline."Also in use Sunday was an upgraded coaches-to-coaches communications system for each team. The league has had some issues this season with the current system, which has been in use for a decade.Some people blamed the problems on the headsets, but the real difficulty has been in the actual system in place.The new, digital and encrypted communications have been tested on non-game personnel in all 31 stadiums."We have had challenges for the last several years with frequency congestion," McKenna noted. "Sometimes coaches have had to go on a wire, and then someone has to follow him around. That's been due to frequency interference on the wireless. And when you go to wired communications, it's typical when there is bad weather or water saturates into those wires, you can get interference."We're looking for a very reliable wireless system so we very rarely have to go to a wire, and when we do go to wire, it is sent over the Internet, which is much more reliable."Use of either the Surface tablet videos or coaches' communications system for games that count must be approved by ownership at league meetings in either March or May. The powerful competition committee will first consider adaptation of each in February before making recommendations to the owners."There will be healthy debate on the competition committee," McKenna said. "Video on the sideline will be a big game changer for how you coach the game."___





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















