
  




AP Survey: Concussions Not Most NFL Players' Chief Concern - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|AP Survey: Concussions Not Most NFL Players' Chief Concern



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/23DOIlL




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
AP Survey: Concussions Not Most NFL Players' Chief Concern

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 9:18 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



During a 15-year NFL career that sent him pinballing over the middle of the field too many times to count, absorbing hits as wicked as they come, former Denver Broncos receiver Brandon Stokley endured injuries that literally ran from head to toe.







And while, by his own estimate, that included at least a dozen concussions, the only health issue that made him seriously contemplate quitting the game was a problem with a small bone in the middle of his foot in his fourth season."I told my wife, 'This is it. I'm done. I can't deal with this pain every day,'" Stokley said in an interview with The Associated Press.Yet he pressed on. Eventually the foot pain subsided. The concussions? Those kept accumulating. Stokley, essentially, shrugged them off, despite the seemingly unending drumbeat of news about the dangers of head injuries. During his playing days, he was more worried about short-term effects than later-in-life ones."The thing with concussions is, usually, you're out a week or two, and then you're back fine," said Stokley, 39, who caught passes from one of this week's Super Bowl quarterbacks, Peyton Manning, while both were with the Broncos and, before that, the Indianapolis Colts. "But you mess your knee up, you're out a year. You mess your shoulder up, you're done for a year."That nonchalant attitude toward concussions that Stokley held while he was active in the league is not all that different from what was expressed by many current NFL players in an AP survey conducted this season and released Sunday. Less than half of the group — only 39 of the 100 players — said they are more worried about the long-term effects of concussions than those of other injuries.Of the remaining 61 players, 20 either said they are not concerned at all about concussions or less concerned about them than other injuries, while 41 said the concern is equal for all injuries."Personally, I don't think about head injuries. They don't affect me," said Nikita Whitlock, a New York Giants special teamer. "I wonder: What are my joints going to be like in 20 years? How will my knees hold up in 20 years? What about my shoulders and wrists? These are the real weak points of your body."That sort of sentiment was heard repeatedly by AP reporters, as if players were ignoring everything related to head trauma and football.Just last week, a member of the Giants' 2012 Super Bowl championship team who died at age 27, safety Tyler Sash, was diagnosed with chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE).  The disease is linked to repeated brain trauma and associated with symptoms such as memory loss, depression and progressive dementia.Sash was just the latest CTE headline: The suicide of Pro Football Hall of Famer Junior Seau. The sudden retirement of San Francisco 49ers linebacker Chris Borland. The concussion-related lawsuits brought by former players. Various safeguards added by the NFL, including attempts to increase in-game monitoring of head injuries and more vigilant policing of illegal hits.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
During regular-season games, the NFL said Friday, there were 182 reported concussions, a 58 percent increase from a year ago.And yet ..."Not worried," Oakland Raiders running back Jamize Olawale said. "I think it's blown out of proportion.""You can get a head injury from anywhere," Houston Texans cornerback Charles James said. "A dude could sucker-punch me, and I could get the same injury I get from hitting a running back head-on."There is, to be sure, a segment of the NFL population that takes concussions and their consequences seriously.A few players interviewed by the AP mentioned the ability to repair knees or hips, "but you can't get a brain replacement.""I'm not trying to lose my memory. I need to know what's going on in my life," Detroit Lions cornerback Darius Slay said. "If you get hit in the head and have a concussion, you might forget who your son is, your momma is. I ain't got time for that. ... You can take the legs."As eight-year defensive end Chris Long of the Rams put it: "I try not to think about it, but the evidence seems to be mounting that we're in trouble. Eight years in, the damage is done."Now out of the NFL for two years, Stokley was asked if he has any concussion symptoms.His reply: "I'm not really wanting to discuss my standing right now."As the conversation continued, he noted that he thinks the NFL is improving how it handles head injuries. And that, in turn, is changing how concussions are discussed in the locker room."If a guy's out for a couple weeks with a concussion, you're not getting the same kind of stares you did 10 or 12 years ago," he said. "It's a serious injury, and they need to treat it like that."___The following AP Sports Writers contributed to this report: Genaro Armas, Bob Baum, Tim Booth, Dave Campbell, Tom Canavan, Jay Cohen, Schuyler Dixon, Josh Dubow, R.B. Fallstrom, David Ginsburg, Jimmy Golen, Fred Goodall, Will Graves, Joe Kay, Larry Lage, Mark Long, Rob Maaddi, Michael Marot, Brett Martel, Janie McCauley, Paul Newberry, Steve Reed, Kristie Rieken, Dave Skretta, Teresa M. Walker, Dennis Waszak Jr., John Wawrow, Bernie Wilson, Steven Wine and Tom Withers.___Follow Eddie Pells on Twitter at http://twitter.com/epells and find his work at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/eddie-pellsFollow Howard Fendrich on Twitter at http://twitter.com/HowardFendrich and find his work at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/howard-fendrich___Online:





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















