
  




Saudi-Led Coalition Sets Up Body to Probe Actions in Yemen - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Middle East|Saudi-Led Coalition Sets Up Body to Probe Actions in Yemen



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Kl3O9p




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Middle East 
Saudi-Led Coalition Sets Up Body to Probe Actions in Yemen

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 6:42 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



DUBAI, United Arab Emirates —  The Saudi-led coalition striking Shiite rebels in Yemen announced Monday that it is setting up an independent committee to probe the force's actions in the deeply impoverished country amid mounting criticism over its military operations there.The kingdom and its allies, which include the United Arab Emirates and other Gulf Arab nations, have been conducting airstrikes in Yemen on the side of the internationally recognized government since last March.The strikes and accompanying coalition ground operations are designed to roll back gains by Shiite Houthi rebels and forces loyal to former President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who have taken over the capital and much of the north in Yemen, the Arab world's poorest country.A document by a United Nations expert panel leaked last week urged the U.N. Security Council to consider creating an international commission to investigate alleged human rights abuses by all sides in the conflict. It cited concerns about more than 100 coalition sorties linked to alleged violations of international humanitarian law.Health facilities operated by Doctors Without Borders have also been struck in recent months, drawing strong condemnation from the aid group, also known by the French acronym MSF.Brig. Gen. Ahmed Asiri, the coalition's spokesman, was quoted by the official Saudi Press Agency early Monday as saying the new committee is tasked with examining coalition military activities in civilian areas.A separate statement from the Saudi Embassy in Washington said the committee will assess the coalition's rules of engagement involving civilians and will offer "conclusions and recommendations to better respect international and humanitarian law.""The coalition has and will continue to take all precautions to protect civilians, medical ?staff, humanitarian organizations and journalists in Yemen," the embassy said.The bloc also reaffirmed its "full cooperation" with the United Nations and the Red Cross, and has set up a hotline with MSF to protect the group's facilities and staff in Yemen, the embassy added on its official Twitter account.Teresa Sancristobal, MSF's emergency unit coordinator, was unable to provide details on the hotline but said the coalition's inquiry plans are "a step in the right direction.""We need to understand what happened and why for the safety of our teams and our patients in Yemen, and in all conflicts," she said in an email.MSF operations in Yemen have come under attack four times in less than three months, including a strike on an ambulance that killed its driver in Saada governorate on Jan. 21, she said.The document from the U.N. panel seen by The Associated Press last week found coalition airstrikes in civilian areas "have been conducted in a widespread and systematic manner." It also documented allegations of fleeing civilians being followed and fired on by helicopters on three separate occasions.The U.N. says more than 5,800 people have been killed and over 80 percent of Yemen's population desperately needs food, water and other assistance.___





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















