
  




Birnbaum's 90th-Minute Header Puts US Men Past Iceland, 3-2 - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Soccer|Birnbaum's 90th-Minute Header Puts US Men Past Iceland, 3-2



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KlLL2S




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Soccer 
Birnbaum's 90th-Minute Header Puts US Men Past Iceland, 3-2

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 12:04 P.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



CARSON, Calif. —  Steve Birnbaum and the U.S. men's national team both need some time to shake off an up-and-down 2015 season.







The defender and his American teammates all got off to a fine start on that process Sunday.Birnbaum headed home the tiebreaking goal on Michael Bradley's corner kick in the 90th minute, and the U.S. men's opened 2016 with a 3-2 exhibition victory over Iceland on Sunday.Birnbaum had his first international goal and an assist as a second-half substitute in his second U.S. appearance. The Orange County native set up Michael Orozco's tying goal in the 59th minute before knocking in the late winner, celebrating in front of a crowd that included his mother and grandmother.Considering Birnbaum didn't even know he would be in this training camp with coach Jurgen Klinsmann's team until shortly before it started, he was thrilled by the follow-up to his U.S. debut last year."I didn't really think I was going to be called into camp, and then a couple of days before, (Klinsmann) just said, 'Can you be in on Monday?'" said Birnbaum, the D.C. United regular. "(Last year) was an up-and-down year. Getting my first cap was great, and then I got injured and it was downhill, and I didn't really hear back from them. It was an up-and-down season at D.C., too. I'm just happy to be back to work."Jozy Altidore scored in the first half and Bradley had two assists in an entertaining start to the Americans' season after a rough 2015 that included a 2-5-1 finish. Klinsmann's team is preparing for World Cup qualifiers against Guatemala in March, and the coach fielded a lineup mixing World Cup veterans with four players making their U.S. debuts."The players got rewarded for a lot of work with that late goal," said Klinsmann, whose 44th career victory moved him past Bob Bradley into second place in U.S. history. "Overall, we had effort and we had spirit, exactly how we've had in training for the whole three weeks. Obviously you can see it — we're not fine-tuned yet. Here and there, this just takes time. But overall, I think they worked very hard."Kristinn Steindorsson and Aron Sigurdarson scored for Iceland under intermittent rain showers and wind at StubHub Center south of downtown Los Angeles.With regulars for both teams still playing in Europe, Iceland fielded a starting lineup with just four players who participated in Euro 2016 qualifying, when the team became the smallest nation ever to qualify for the tournament.The available Americans have spent January in a Carson training camp split between players on the senior team and under-23 prospects. The seniors have a busy year including World Cup qualifiers and the Copa America this summer, while the youngsters must attempt to qualify for the Rio Olympics in March with a two-leg qualifier against Colombia.Defender Kellyn Acosta and midfielder Ethan Finlay made their U.S. debuts in the starting lineup. The 20-year-old Acosta is a homegrown FC Dallas prospect, while the 25-year-old Finlay is with the Columbus Crew.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
"It was an honor and a privilege," Finlay said. "I wanted to put a good step forward."The Crew's Tony Tchani also made his U.S. debut as a substitute for Jermaine Jones in the 71st minute, and 22-year-old Stuttgart forward Jerome Kiesewetter followed for his own debut. Red Bulls goalkeeper Luis Robles made his first U.S. appearance since 2009.Iceland scored in the 13th minute when a shot by Steindorsson, who played 21 games for Columbus last season, deflected off Orozco and caught Robles diving the wrong way.The U.S. evened it seven minutes later when Gyasi Zardes set up Bradley for a deft pass through to Altidore. The veteran striker deposited his 32nd career goal, just two behind Eric Wynalda for third place in U.S. history.Early in the second half, Sigurdarson showed impressive skill in curling a long shot past Robles. The Americans evened it off a setpiece, with Orozco — another late addition to the U.S. roster — finishing work by Altidore and Birnbaum.The U.S. men have another friendly at StubHub Center against Canada on Friday night.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















