
  




Va Tech Students Get Lawyers as Police Probe Teen's Death - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Va Tech Students Get Lawyers as Police Probe Teen's Death



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KRtKUV




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Va Tech Students Get Lawyers as Police Probe Teen's Death

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 11:39 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



BLACKSBURG, Va. —  Two Virginia Tech students charged in the death of a 13-year-old girl who apparently climbed out her bedroom window obtained lawyers and appeared in court on Monday, but the events that led to her killing remained a mystery.







David Eisenhauer, 18, has been charged with kidnapping and first-degree murder in the death of 13-year-old Nicole Madison Lovell, who endured a liver transplant and bullying at school and online. Her body was found Saturday in North Carolina, four days after she left home, police said.Natalie Keepers, 19, faces charges of improper disposal of a body and accessory after the fact in the commission of a felony.Eisenhauer appeared briefly in court, out of sight of reporters, ahead of the scheduled 10 a.m. hearing. Eisenhauer retained a court-appointed attorney, the clerk's office said.Keepers also appeared, handcuffed and shackled in an orange jumpsuit. She told Judge Robert Viar Jr. that she understands the charges and that she had also retained counsel. Her next court date is March 28.Police said they have evidence showing Eisenhauer knew the girl before she disappeared, but have not said anything more about a possible motive. Her family said she apparently blocked her bedroom door with furniture and climbed out a window Wednesday night."Eisenhauer used this relationship to his advantage to abduct the 13-year-old and then kill her. Keepers helped Eisenhauer dispose of Nicole's body," a Blacksburg police statement said.Authorities said they located her remains on Saturday in Surry County, North Carolina, just over the Virginia border.Blacksburg police Chief Anthony Wilson told The Roanoke Times that Eisenhauer has not confessed and did not provide information that led to the body.A state police search and recovery team has been searching a pond on the Virginia Tech campus, but state police spokeswoman Corinne Geller would not say what they were looking for.Nicole's life was not easy, her mother, Tammy Weeks, told The Washington Post (http://wapo.st/201JsDS). She survived a liver transplant, MRSA (a drug-resistant staph infection) and lymphoma when she was 5, Weeks said."God got her through all that, and she fought through all that, and he took her life," Weeks said.Nicole didn't like going to school because girls called her fat and talked about the scars from her transplant, and she often cried to stay home, Weeks said."It got so bad I wouldn't send her," Weeks said, but the bullying continued on social media.She loved pandas and pop music, and wanted to be on "American Idol" when she got older, her mother said.Davy Draper, a close family friend who knew the teen most of her life, called her an energetic and outspoken girl who got along with everyone."She was an awesome little girl. She was an angel here on Earth, and she's an angel now," Draper said Sunday.Both Eisenhauer and Keepers, who came to Virginia Tech from nearby cities in Maryland, were being held without bond at the Montgomery County Jail.Eisenhauer was a standout track and field athlete in high school, who was named Boys Indoor Track Performer of the Year by The Baltimore Sun in March. The Sun said Eisenhauer had moved to Columbia from Yakima, Washington, for his junior year and quickly became a star on the East Coast. His coach told the newspaper that Eisenhauer was "the best-kept secret in Maryland."Both Eisenhauer and Keepers enrolled as freshman engineering majors at Virginia Tech, where hundreds of students and researchers had joined the search for Nicole's body. Eisenhauer has been suspended from the university, a Virginia Tech statement said.A number listed for Eisenhauer's parents rang busy. A message left at Keepers' home in Laurel, Maryland, was not immediately returned. Nicole's family members did not immediately return messages seeking comment.___Associated Press writers Larry O'Dell and Alanna Durkin Richer contributed from Richmond, Virginia.___This story has been corrected to show that the comments from Nicole Lovell's mother came from The Washington Post, not The Roanoke Times.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















