
  




A Monetary 'Magician' of Dirty Tricks in ABC Drama 'Madoff' - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|A Monetary 'Magician' of Dirty Tricks in ABC Drama 'Madoff'



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KlJ29G




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
A Monetary 'Magician' of Dirty Tricks in ABC Drama 'Madoff'

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 11:39 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



NEW YORK —  Don't look to Richard Dreyfuss to defend Bernie Madoff.







Dreyfuss, who plays this rapacious investment guru in ABC's miniseries "Madoff" (airing Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m. EST), isn't about to plead Bernie's case."But actors don't only play people they approve of," says the Oscar-winning actor who for years tried to launch a film project that would star him as Adolph Hitler.Then he cites another object of his scorn he did portray — former vice president Dick Cheney in the 2008 feature"W.""I think he deserves to go to jail for a million years," says Dreyfuss, "but I could still play him. People forget that inside everyone is a bit of Dick Cheney, and as an actor you find those little moments when you've been a little bit Cheney. Or a little bit Bernie. Then you extrapolate that out to build the character on."Whatever his MO for channeling his inner darkness, it works for him here. Charmingly, chillingly does Dreyfuss inhabit this self-proclaimed Wall Street "magician" whose colossal Ponzi scheme lost as much as $40 billion for tens of thousands of clients in more than 100 countries ranging from movie stars to elderly retirees.Beside him for this monumental rise and fall was his devoted wife Ruth, who in "Madoff" receives a raw but compassionate portrayal by Blythe Danner."She didn't know," declares Danner. "She was guiltless, as far as I'm concerned."The Emmy- and Tony-winning actress met with Ruth Madoff — who now lives in seclusion stripped of family, riches and good name — to prepare for the film."I didn't ask her a lot of probing questions, but it was good to get a feeling of who she was: a composed, lovely lady," Danner says. "She was picking up and going on as best she could. But you sensed a lot of pain."Dreyfuss says he had a similar opportunity:  to speak by phone with Bernie Madoff."I turned it down. I thought, 'What's he gonna do, tell me the truth?' It would be an exercise in futility."His crime was notable only for its epic scale. Indeed, the ripple effects of his racket even reached the "Madoff" production last year, according to the film's director, Raymond De Felitta.During the shoot, New York-area country clubs proved cost-efficient "for mopping up several locations — a dining room, an apartment, a golf course — at one site," he notes. But he was caught off-guard by the welcome with which the film crew (and its fees) were greeted."I told the guy at one Long Island country club, 'I remember when country clubs didn't allow film crews to shoot there,'" De Felitta says. "He explained, 'Madoff wiped out a lot of our membership. We need the money.' From prison, Bernie was helping us make the film!"De Felitta (who also directed the 2009 indie feature "City Island") calls Madoff "villainous. But you have to show him as human."Helping humanize the portrait is Madoff's relationship — domineering yet caring — with his wife.Dreyfuss calls attention to a tender moment after Madoff's bare-knuckles disclosure to his family that he's a fraud who's headed to jail, and they're broke. His two sons storm out of the room. "But he can tell that Ruth still doesn't understand. She says to him, 'What do you mean?'"
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Reverting to his customary mode of protector, Madoff tries to soothe her: "I don't think we should go into the details right now.""It's so loving," Dreyfuss says."It could have been very dismissive," says his co-star. "But the way you played it, isn't."The chemistry is obvious between them: For Dreyfuss, 68, and Danner, who on Wednesday turns 73, "Madoff" is their fourth project together."I've known Richard since he was 19," says Danner."That was the very beginning of my career," Dreyfuss laughs, "and SHE had already won a Tony!"They were performing "Major Barbara" at Los Angeles' Mark Taper Forum, with Danner in the title role of the Shaw classic."I used to walk her to her car in the parking lot," Dreyfuss recalls, "and I had SUCH a crush on her — oh, my God! But she was married, so that was that."Their latest joint venture won't be the last cinematic word on Madoff's infamy. "The Wizard of Lies," starring Robert De Niro and Michelle Pfeiffer, awaits HBO viewers next year."All during our shoot, we knew about it," says Dreyfuss. "Quite frankly, as an actor I kept looking over my shoulder: Are they gaining on us?"Unlike the chronologically plotted "Madoff," HBO's film is expected to take a retrospective tact framed by Madoff as he serves his 150-year sentence."In order to understand Bernie Madoff," says Dreyfuss, unforgiving but still clearly captivated by the man, "you probably have to see both films."





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















