
  




Besting Bowie and Adele, Panic! At the Disco Hits No. 1 - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Arts|Besting Bowie and Adele, Panic! At the Disco Hits No. 1



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1nzVCYr




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Arts 
Besting Bowie and Adele, Panic! At the Disco Hits No. 1

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 11:46 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



LOS ANGELES —  Debuting at No. 1 is certainly an accomplishment, but bumping artists like David Bowie and Adele down the music charts has Panic! at the Disco's Brendon Urie simply gobsmacked."That's insane. I mean, to be in same sentence as anyone like that — I'm not worthy," Urie said. "I was just floored!""Death of a Bachelor," released last month, topped the Billboard 200 chart and sold 190,000 equivalent albums in its first week, according to Nielsen Music.It's the fifth album and first No. 1 for Panic!, of which Urie is the only remaining original member after his band mates decided to leave the group over the years.But the 28-year-old vocalist is loving life as a solo act. He co-wrote the album's songs and plays most of the instruments on the pop-rock project."It's amazing because I don't have to compromise or I don't have to argue as much," he said.In an interview last week with The Associated Press, Urie discussed doing things his way on "Death of a Bachelor," touring with Weezer and his eclectic inspirations, from Beyoncé to Frank Sinatra._____AP: What did you think when you heard you knocked Bowie's album from the top spot?Urie: I'm conflicted about it. I'm happy, but man, just losing a legend, yeah, I mean, that's unreal but I'm glad that at least I had a chance to pop in there, get on people's radar. David Bowie had so many hits, too; it's not like I'm hurting his career by any means.AP: How confident were you about your solo debut?Urie: There's always nerves when you're releasing something. These are all very personal to me. Every song is autobiographical. It's about something I experienced or want to experience, so it's all very close to my heart.AP: Who were some of your inspirations on the album?Urie: Queen, Bruce Springsteen. ...There's a pretty good, in my opinion, a good mash up of Beyoncé and Sinatra on the title track. ...I wrote the song actually trying to make a Sinatra song ...and then I hit this wall, just writing-wise, where I was getting so frustrated. ...So I took a break from it and went back to this beat I had worked on like months before and it kind of had this 'Drunk in Love,' Beyoncé-kind of feel. ...It was just like a happy accident.AP: Has Beyoncé heard the track?Urie: I wonder. I doubt it, but I would love to show her (and say), 'You inspired this, Queen B!'AP: What can fans expect from your summer tour with Weezer?Urie: That is really crazy to say. Anytime I say it, it doesn't feel real. I don't think it's gonna feel real until the first week of the tour where we've established set times and hang out. ...But knowing that we're going to be touring together was just like my childhood fantasies come true. ...Ten-year-old me would just be crying right now, flipping out, ecstatic. I might cry (onstage). No promises, but maybe.____Online:http://www.panicatthedisco.com/____





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















