
  




Law Enforcement Leaders Examine New Use-Of-Force Principles - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|Law Enforcement Leaders Examine New Use-Of-Force Principles



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Q6aqoI




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
Law Enforcement Leaders Examine New Use-Of-Force Principles

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 10:01 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



WASHINGTON —  Police across the United States are rethinking how they use force amid national outrage over questionable shootings and violent arrests.







The changes include efforts in Dallas to train officers to de-escalate situations by moving backward during target practice and arming some with sponge projectiles rather than guns. In Camden, New Jersey, officers are taught about the sanctity of life and encouraged to take time to defuse a situation, even if a suspect is wildly waving a knife at them.After months of work, nearly 200 law enforcement leaders gathered in Washington on Friday to review and discuss new guiding principles that, if enacted by the roughly 18,000 law enforcement agencies in the United States, would significantly remake how policing has been done for decades. The 30 principles include an unprecedented acknowledgment from leading law enforcement professionals that officers should go beyond the Supreme Court-adopted basic legal standard that asks what a "reasonable officer" would do in such a situation, and that officers should focus on preserving all human lives in any encounter."There's an expression, 'Lawful but awful,'" said Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, who led the effort to develop the principles. "I think (these principles) would impact on some level these really tragic shootings of the mentally ill, the homeless person, the unarmed person. It could have an enormous impact."The group's principles, which will be released officially in an upcoming report, also require officers to respond proportionally to a suspect, imagining the public's perception of that response, and to communicate effectively instead of, for example, repeatedly telling a suspect to drop the weapon. The principles also recommend departments stop training on what it called "outdated concepts," such as the "21-foot-rule," which refers to the distance an armed suspect with a knife can close before an officer can draw their weapon. Instead, officers are encouraged to create more distance and use cover, so that they give themselves more time to respond.Researchers traveled with police chiefs to Scotland last year to study how police there, who are nearly all unarmed, use distance, often backing away from suspects with their hands up, for example, to encourage calm. In one video shown Friday, officers in downtown Camden encountered a man high on narcotics who had threatened a man in a restaurant with a knife last November. Video showed officers walking with the man for four city blocks, clearing pedestrians ahead of him and telling other responders to standby, as he wildly waved his knife at them."About a year and a half ago we would've shot and killed him, there's no doubt in my mind," said Camden County Police Chief Scott Thomson. But "we were very happily trying to walk him back to Philadelphia," he joked. A little over a year ago the department added the sanctity of life to their use-of-force policy.In Dallas, the department is providing 100 blue-tipped sponge projectiles to trained patrol officers who may use those less-lethal rounds as early as June. Once on scene, patrol officers would back up and put their guns away and allow specially trained officers to take over the problem, said Dallas police Deputy Chief Jeffrey Cotner.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
"We're trying to instill in every opportunity, de-escalation, distance," Cotner said. He said when officers begin qualifying on the gun range in March they'll move away from the targets, not toward them.But Geoffrey Alpert, a criminology professor at the University of South Carolina in Columbia, said what's key is not only having these principles, but that law enforcement uses and enforces them."I think a lot of departments have them," Alpert said. "A lot of departments have very good policies, very good procedures and good training, but they're not followed."Los Angeles Police Protective League Director Jamie McBride, a detective who is one of nine representing the LAPD's 9,800 sworn officers, said the new principles weren't new and were common sense. He also noted that American officers, unlike those in Scotland, patrol communities that are often heavily armed and violent."It's always been about preservation of life. That goes to both sides — the police and the suspect," McBride said. "We've always learned to try to communicate. We've always tried to de-escalate. We know all this stuff. Unfortunately, we don't live in a perfect world."___





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















