
  




Eric Church, Chris Stapleton Lead ACM Nominations - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Eric Church, Chris Stapleton Lead ACM Nominations



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Q6TnCM




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Eric Church, Chris Stapleton Lead ACM Nominations

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 9:58 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



NASHVILLE, Tenn. —  Eric Church and Chris Stapleton lead the nominees for the 51st annual Academy of Country Music Awards with five nominations each, including male vocalist and album of the year.In nominations announced Monday, Church earned a first-time nod for entertainer of the year, along with Jason Aldean, Garth Brooks, Luke Bryan — co-hosting the show with Dierks Bentley — and Miranda Lambert. Church also earned nominations for video of the year for "Mr. Misunderstood," and vocal event of the year for "Raise 'Em Up" with Keith Urban.Stapleton earned two nominations for album of the year category for his "Traveller," as both artist and co-producer. Chris Young, Thomas Rhett and Sam Hunt are also nominated for album of the year. Stapleton, 2015's breakout country artist with four Grammy nominations, also earned nominations for new male vocalist of the year and vocal event of the year for "Hangover Tonight" with Gary Allan.Bentley, Aldean and Brett Eldredge also are vying for male vocalist. Lambert, who earned three nominations overall, earned her 10th consecutive nod for female vocalist of the year; she'll compete against Carrie Underwood, Kacey Musgraves, Kelsea Ballerini and Jana Kramer.First-time ACM nominee Cam received four nominations, including new female vocalist and video of the year for "Burning House." The single also earned Cam a dual nomination for artist and producer in the single record of the year category.Singer Chris Young also received four nominations, for his work as artist and co-producer on his latest album, "I'm Comin' Over," and for single record of the year for the album's title song.Little Big Town earned a 10th nomination for vocal group of the year, as well as nominations for single record of the year and video of the year for "Girl Crush." As a group, they also earned a nomination for vocal event of the year for "Smokin' And Drinkin'" with Miranda Lambert, while singer Karen Fairchild received an individual nomination in the same category for "Home Alone Tonight" with Luke Bryan. Eli Young Band, Old Dominion and Rascal Flatts all earned nominations for vocal group of the year.New singer Chris Janson earned three nominations for his work as artist and co-producer on "Buy Me a Boat," up for single record of the year, and for new male vocalist. Rhett earned his first album of the year nomination for "Tangled Up," as well as nods for his No. 1 hit, "Die a Happy Man," for single record of the year and new male vocalist of the year.In the vocal duo category, wife and husband duo Joey + Rory earned a nomination as Joey Feek is struggling with terminal cancer. Also nominated in that category were Brothers Osborne, Florida Georgia Line, Dan + Shay and Maddie & Tae.Bentley announced the nominees for six categories on "CBS This Morning." Additional categories were announced on ETonline.com. Song of the year, songwriter of the year and other industry categories will be announced at a later date.The awards air live from Las Vegas on April 3 at 8:00 PM EDT on CBS.____Online:Academy of Country Music Awards: www.ACMcountry.com





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















