
  




Homeland Security Begins Sharing Cyberthreats With Business - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|Homeland Security Begins Sharing Cyberthreats With Business



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/22pEl3z




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
Homeland Security Begins Sharing Cyberthreats With Business

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 17, 2016, 3:40 P.M. E.D.T.



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON —  The Homeland Security Department on Thursday formally began sharing details of new digital threats with private business and other government agencies, a culmination of a longtime effort to improve cybersecurity."This is the 'if you see something, say something' of cybersecurity," said Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson at the agency's Virginia-based data sharing hub, the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center.A federal law passed at the end of 2015 was intended to encourage corporations to share information about cyberthreats, making it harder for businesses to be targeted by threats used elsewhere.The program is voluntary, and the number of companies that will participate or how effective the program will be remains unclear.Companies have long been reluctant to acknowledge security failures. As of Thursday, about six organizations had signed up and others have expressed interest, Andy Ozment, the assistant cybersecurity secretary at Homeland Security, said. The names of companies participating are closely held, and records about their involvement are exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

"This is a big deal," he said. "We're not going to launch out the gates ... and have thousands of companies sharing all sorts of information. We want to make sure we're providing value and growing."Under the new law, the Homeland Security Department programmed its systems to remove personally identifiable information that might be included that private companies might share."As companies come on board, we'll learn more about what's useful," and learn to streamline other parts, said Suzanne Spaulding, a top Homeland Security cyber official.If information pertains to a specific threat of economic damage, death or serious injury or the effort to prosecute or prevent the exploitation of a minor, personal information may be passed on to other agencies.Information sharing and analysis centers, which industry groups operate, will likely participate in the new program, DHS officials said. Johnson said he was telling such groups, "We are open for business, on time and on schedule."Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, praised the new effort following recent hacks against Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc. and the Office of Personnel Management. More than 21 million Americans had their personal information stolen in the OPM hack, which the U.S. believes was a Chinese espionage operation.___Online:Cyber threat sharing program information: http://www.us-cert.gov/ais___Follow Tami Abdollah on Twitter at https://twitter.com/latams. Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















