
  




White House Brief: Things to Know About Donald Trump - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|White House Brief: Things to Know About Donald Trump



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Q6ckWp




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
White House Brief: Things to Know About Donald Trump

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 3:33 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



IOWA CITY, Iowa —  Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is counting on a strong showing in Monday's Iowa caucuses to prove his convention-busting combination of bluster and unpredictability is a winning formula in the 2016 race for the Republican presidential nomination. Here's a quick look at some things to know about him.







___THE BRIEFA year ago, the reality television star and billionaire real estate developer was largely dismissed as an attention-seeking showman who had little intention of actually entering the race. But since announcing his candidacy in June at Trump Tower, he has upended the presidential contest as longtime Republican observers look on in awe.Trump's campaign has been ignited by a series of controversial statements, each seemingly more outrageous than the last. He's said the Mexican government sends criminals across the U.S. border illegally. He's questioned Arizona Sen. John McCain's status as a war hero. He's called for temporarily banning Muslims from entering the country — a religious test derided across the globe. But while critics condemn each successive statement, Trump has won over new fans and remained atop of the GOP field in preference polls, tapping into the angers and frustrations of an electorate deeply concerned about America's place in the world.___RESUME REVIEWThe son of a New York real estate developer, Trump grew up in an upper-income section of Queens and quickly joined his father's business after graduating from The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Lured by the tall buildings and bright lights, Trump moved across the East River and set his sights on Manhattan.Over the following decades, Trump's reputation grew, not only for his assets but for his made-for-New-York-tabloid exploits. He became a national household name with the success of the hit television show, "The Apprentice," and earned conservative credentials as he questioned whether President Barack Obama was born outside the United States.___SIGNATURE ISSUEThe campaign promise best associated with Trump is his plan to build a wall along the length of the U.S. Southern border to stop the flow of migrants from Mexico. And, Trump says, he'll make the Mexican government pay for it. Trump has also vowed to deport all of the estimated 11 million people living in the country illegally. While he says the deportations will be done "humanely," he's advocated using deportation squads that would search door-to-door. Trump says his wall would include a "big beautiful door" so that the "good" immigrants can re-enter the country legally. He has yet to lay out specifics of how the federal government would manage that process.___DEBATE DIGESTIt began with a simple question: "Is there anyone on stage, and can I see hands, who is unwilling tonight to pledge your support to the eventual nominee of the Republican Party and pledge to not run an independent campaign against that person?"With Trump's raised hand, he stole the show at that first Republican debate and made it clear that he was not playing by the usual rules.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Later in that same debate, he began his showdown with Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly, who confronted Trump over his history of making derogatory comments about women.Trump responded by denouncing what he called a culture of political correctness. "I don't frankly have time for total political correctness," he said. "And to be honest with you, this country doesn't have time either."___MOMENT TO REMEMBERAs rival Ben Carson rose in some Iowa polls in November, Trump delivered an epic takedown of the retired neurosurgeon at one of his campaign rallies. In an effort to cast doubt on one aspect of Carson's life story, Trump dramatically re-enacted a scene from Carson's autobiography, in which he, as a young man, attempted to stab a friend or family member in the stomach. In Carson's telling, the blade is miraculously stopped by the victim's belt."So I have a belt ... it's going in because the belt moves this way. It moves this way, it moves that way," Trump said, dramatically acting out the scene."How stupid are the people of Iowa?" he later railed. "How stupid are the people of the country to believe this crap?"___PLEASE FORGETThat time he joked about dating his daughter, if only the two weren't related. A series of derogatory comments aimed at women. Dozens of potentially offensive tweets, including several re-tweets of accounts linked to white supremacists.Trump's refusal to play by the rules of political correctness has earned him legions of loyal supporters. But his comments have also raised questions among critics about his temperament and whether he has the judgment to be president.___ONLINE AND SOCIAL MEDIATwitter:Instagram:www.instagram.com/realdonaldtrumpFacebook:https://www.facebook.com/DonaldTrump





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















