
  




White House Brief: Things to Know About Sen. Marco Rubio - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|White House Brief: Things to Know About Sen. Marco Rubio



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Q6cEV1




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
White House Brief: Things to Know About Sen. Marco Rubio

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 3:36 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



NASHUA, N.H. —  Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida sells himself as the most electable Republican and is viewed as the GOP mainstream's presidential contender. But he's struggled to tap the anti-establishment anger with time running out before the Feb. 1 Iowa caucuses. His campaign is downplaying early voting states, saying they expect a long campaign. Here's a quick look at some things to know about him.







___THE BRIEFThe son of Cuban immigrants, Rubio won a Senate seat during the tea party wave of 2010, and has since broadened his appeal beyond the limited government, libertarian-leaning movement. At 44, he attracts younger voters — long a tricky reach for Republicans — and he would make history as the first Hispanic president. He's a strong fundraiser and in-demand campaigner.Rubio was expected to brawl with his one-time mentor: former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush. But he and Bush have been overshadowed by billionaire businessman Donald Trump and Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas. He's betting big that Republican voters across the political spectrum ultimately will coalesce behind his candidacy in the state-by-state slog for delegates.The Florida senator has in recent weeks painted a portrait of himself as a passionate evangelical conservative, a national security hawk, an empathizer of immigrants in the country illegally, and someone who can bring new voters to the Republican Party. He has been hammered in television ads by opponents and super PACS that have cast him as a flip-flopper questioned his Senate attendance record.___RESUME REVIEWBorn in Miami, Rubio attended college in Missouri on a football scholarship before transferring to the University of Florida, where he earned his undergraduate degree. He went on to earn his law degree from the University of Miami, where as a third-year law student, he ran Dade County for Sen. Bob Dole's presidential campaign in 1996. He defeated an incumbent to win a seat on the West Miami City Commission, moving on to the state House two years later.In 2007, he became the first Hispanic elected speaker of the Florida House and in 2009 began his against-all-odds run for the U.S. Senate. In that race, he beat the establishment-favored candidate in the GOP primary and won the general election in a three-way race.Rubio has chosen not to run for re-election to the Senate to pursue the GOP presidential nomination.___SIGNATURE ISSUERubio pledges lower individual and corporate taxes, a tax credit for couples with children, alternatives to traditional college education and increased defense spending. On immigration, he wants the border secured before dealing with those here illegally — making them earn work permits after at least 10 years.His main theme: The country needs a "new generation of leadership" for a "new American century."Says Rubio in his stump speech: "I run for president because I believe that we can't just save the American dream; we can expand it to reach more people and change more lives than ever before."___DEBATE DIGEST
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Whether it's fending off attacks from Bush or focusing attacks on Cruz, Rubio is a polished politician on the national debate stage. Conservatives crowed about the line Rubio — whose mother worked as a maid and whose father tended bar — used to go after Democrat Hillary Clinton in the first GOP debate."How is Hillary Clinton going to lecture me on living paycheck to paycheck?" Rubio said. "I was raised to paycheck to paycheck."He now uses the line regularly to highlight his own economic proposals.___MOMENT TO REMEMBEROne of Rubio's strongest moments in the debates came in October when Bush went after him on his Senate attendance record and more.  In response, Rubio managed to make Bush look beleaguered and a slave to his advisers all at once. "We're running for the same position and someone has convinced you that attacking me is going to help you," he said.___PLEASE FORGETRubio has taken plenty of grief from some rivals for his spotty attendance record in the Senate and his missed votes while out campaigning. "Marco, when you signed up for this, this was a six-year term, and you should be showing up for work," Jeb Bush admonished in one debate.Indeed, from Oct. 27, 2014, to Oct. 26, 2015, Rubio was absent for 26 percent of Senate votes, a worse attendance record than other senators running for president, according to an analysis by GovTrack.us, which tracks congressional voting records.To be sure, both Barack Obama and John McCain had even worse Senate attendance records when they ran against each other in 2008. But Rubio appeared sensitive to the criticism: In early January, he skipped a Florida fundraiser to return conspicuously to Washington for a classified hearing on North Korea. A photo of him scurrying to the meeting landed on Twitter. GOP and Democratic opponents alike pounced on the episode.___ONLINE AND SOCIAL MEDIATwitter:http://twitter.com/marcorubioInstagram:http://instagram.com/marcorubioflaFacebook:http://www.facebook.com/MarcoRubiohttp://www.facebook.com/SenatorMarcoRubio





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















