
  




Clinton, Sanders Look for Liftoff in Iowa's Caucuses - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|Clinton, Sanders Look for Liftoff in Iowa's Caucuses



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1So2q98




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
Clinton, Sanders Look for Liftoff in Iowa's Caucuses

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 1:30 P.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



DES MOINES, Iowa —  Locked in what's become a neck-and-neck primary battle, Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders made frantic, last-minute appeals to Iowa voters in the final hours before Monday night's caucuses.







Nine months after launching their campaigns, Clinton and Sanders face Iowa voters in equally precarious positions. Long the front-runner, Clinton now faces the possibility of dual losses in Iowa and in New Hampshire, the nation's first primary, where she trails the Vermont senator. Two straight defeats could set off alarms within the party and question her ability to defeat Republicans."We've got a tie ballgame - that's where we are," Sanders told volunteers and supporters in Des Moines Monday, imploring them to turn out and caucus. "We will struggle tonight if the voter turnout is low. That's a fact."Sanders, meanwhile, hoped to replicate President Barack Obama's pathway to the presidency by using a victory in Iowa to catapult his passion and ideals of "democratic socialism" deep into the primary. He reported on Sunday raising $20 million — mostly online — during January and could experience a fundraising bonanza if he prevails in Iowa.A loss here would be a major setback for his upstart challenge against the ex-secretary of state, New York senator and first lady, who has deep ties throughout the party's establishment and a strong following among a more diverse electorate that plays a larger role in primary contests in February and March.Former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley, who's failed to break single digits in most polls, trailed Clinton and Sanders by wide margins and was only expected to affect the outcome in a tight race.Clinton hoped to overcome her surprising 2008 defeat to Obama in Iowa, which transformed the then-first term Illinois senator from a longshot into serious contender."Although it's a tight race, a lot of the people who are committed to caucusing for me will be there and standing up for me and I will do the same for them in the campaign and in the presidency," Clinton told NBC's Today Monday morning."I'm so excited for tonight. I'm feeling so energized!" Clinton told supporters Monday, stopping by a campaign office in Des Moines with her daughter, Chelsea, and iced coffee and doughnuts for volunteers.Clinton told NBC Monday that her staff knocked on 125,000 doors over the weekend to promote her message and woo the undecided.Sanders, helped by 15,000 volunteers in Iowa, needs a strong showing among college students and eligible high school seniors, first-time caucus-goers and working-class supporters who don't traditionally participate in the caucuses. The local meetings are held across the state on a winter evening every four years, placing a premium on organization.The so-called "democratic socialist" cast the race as a fight between establishment forces backing Clinton and his movement to provide a Medicare for all "universal health care," debt-free college and a break-up of large Wall Street banks."You don't make progress unless you have the courage to look reality in the eye," Sanders said at a rally in Waterloo. "If you sweep the problems under the rug they ain't going to get better."Traveling through Iowa by bus, Sanders campaigned extensively in the eastern part of the state, on college campuses and liberal enclaves in cities, trying to light a similar fire that Obama sparked here in 2008. Clinton had strength in cities, rural towns across the state and western Iowa, where she won many counties eight years ago.Clinton flew around the state in a private plane, touching down for rallies in some of Iowa's largest media markets.The biggest question on caucus day? Voter turnout. Democrats shattered records in 2008, the last contested caucuses, with nearly 240,000 participants, far surpassing the 125,000 in 2004. Few expect turnout approaching 2008 levels but Sanders said a higher turnout would help him upset Clinton.__





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















