
  




Coroner: California Inmate Had Signs of Starvation - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Coroner: California Inmate Had Signs of Starvation



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/24OWMRa




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Coroner: California Inmate Had Signs of Starvation

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 8, 2016, 3:01 P.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  At 6-foot-1 and 172 pounds, Michael Stanley Galliher appeared healthy — until he dropped dead days after being transferred to a California prison from a state mental hospital.







A coroner found the 49-year-old Galliher essentially starved to death, setting off a flurry of accusations and finger-pointing. Galliher's family and inmate advocates want an investigation. Prison officials say they did nothing wrong and state doctors dispute the coroner's findings.Galliher's mother said her son's schizophrenia made him paranoid to eat around others, and prison officials should have known that and not had him take meals with other inmates.She has filed a wrongful death claim, saying prison officials didn't adequately monitor her son to ensure he was eating properly."He's in your custody, he's mentally ill, it's your duty and responsibility to take care of him," said Ann Marie Patrick of Alhambra.Galliher died at the California Medical Facility in Vacaville in August, six days after being transferred from the state mental hospital in Atascadero. He was in state custody for 25 years after being sentenced to life with the possibility of parole for second-degree murder in the 1989 shooting of his cousin.The autopsy report, provided to The Associated Press after a public records request, found Galliher died from "complications of inanition," defined as an exhausted condition resulting from lack of nourishment. He had no food in his stomach, severely low blood sugar and other effects of fasting, including a blood condition "commonly observed in starvation," the report said.Galliher "had not been eating, and likely was not taking his medications," wrote Deputy Coroner Corey McLean, summarizing a phone call with Lt. Felix Hopper, who runs the prison's investigative services unit.Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation spokeswoman Dana Simas saying officials didn't have any indication that Galliher was on a hunger strike or not eating.Prison doctors did their own comprehensive death review that contradicted the coroner's ruling, said Joyce Hayhoe, a spokeswoman for the federal receiver who oversees the prison medical system. She would not say what they think killed Galliher, citing patient privacy laws.Hayhoe said in a statement that prison guards gave the coroner's office inaccurate information. The coroner did not talk to medical workers and relied on a 2-year-old medical history that did not reflect Galliher's current condition, it added.The pathologist who conducted the autopsy, Dr. Venus Azar, stands by her finding, said Solano County sheriff's Capt. Brad DeWall. A second pathologist brought in to review the case preliminarily came to the same conclusion, he said.Galliher cycled in and out of the state mental hospital, going there whenever his mental health deteriorated in prison, his mother said. Once stabilized, he'd be transferred back to prison. Before his death, Galliher had been in the psychiatric hospital for nearly two years.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Patrick said her son's aversion to eating around others was a decades-long hallmark of his paranoia. In the months before he killed his cousin, he would refuse to eat unless his grandmother, with whom he was living, put towels over the windows, Patrick said.During visits at the state mental hospital, she would buy her son food from vending machines. He would take a bite, but cover his mouth so no one could see.Department of State Hospitals spokesman Ken August said in an email that he couldn't discuss specific cases or even confirm that Galliher had been their patient. However, he said a patient's treatment team typically provides the receiving agency with recommended continuing care plans, including an alert section pointing out any critical issues.Michael Bien, one of the attorneys representing sick and mentally ill inmates in two class-action lawsuits against the state, is calling for an investigation."You don't expect a patient to die when they're discharged from a hospital," Bien said. "You want to find out, was something missed in the handoff?"Galliher's mother is still stinging after learning of his death in a phone call she made to wish him a happy birthday and was told he died two months earlier. Prison officials had notified her ex-husband, but the message never reached her."I think he died of neglect," Patrick said.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















