
  




The Latest: Extra Counselors at School After Teen's Death - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|The Latest: Extra Counselors at School After Teen's Death



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Klwhfe




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
The Latest: Extra Counselors at School After Teen's Death

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 12:45 P.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



BLACKSBURG, Va. —  The Latest on the alleged abduction and slaying of a 13-year-old Virginia girl (all times local):







12:35 p.m.A school official says additional counselors were brought in to help students grieving over the death of a middle school classmate in Virginia.Montgomery County public schools spokeswoman Brenda Drake said 10 counselors were on duty Monday at Blacksburg Middle School — seven more than usual. She said the counselors were busy in the morning, but students seemed to be getting back to their routine by around noon.Blacksburg police say seventh-grader Nicole Madison Lovell's body was found in North Carolina on Saturday, four days after she disappeared. A Virginia Tech student has been charged with abducting and killing the 13-year-old, and another Tech student has been charged with helping dispose of her body.Nicole's mother, Tammy Weeks, told The Washington Post (http://wapo.st/201JsDS) that her daughter had been bullied at school. Drake said she could not confirm that because of privacy laws, but she said the county's schools have anti-bullying programs.___10:25 a.m.Two Virginia Tech students accused in the death of a 13-year-old girl have made their first appearances in a courtroom.Eighteen-year-old David Eisenhauer made a brief appearance in a Montgomery County courtroom on Monday out of sight of reporters. Eisenhauer was scheduled to appear at 10 a.m., but showed up ahead of time. The clerk's office said Eisenhauer had retained court-appointed attorney Chris Tuck. He is charged with first-degree murder and abduction in the death of 13-year-old Nicole Madison Lovell. Her body was found near the Virginia-North Carolina border.Police have not said how she was killed or released a motive for the slaying.Nineteen-year-old Natalie Keepers entered the court wearing an orange jumpsuit with handcuffs and shackles. She is charged with improper disposal of a body and accessory after the fact. She told Judge Robert Viar (VY'-ur) Jr. that she understood the charges against her and had retained counsel, attorney Kris Olin.Both have their next court date is March 28.The students did not enter a plea.___9:35 a.m.The mother of a slain Virginia teenager says the girl endured bullying at school and on social media before her death.Tammy Weeks told The Washington Post (http://wapo.st/201JsDS) that 13-year-old Nicole Madison Lovell often cried to stay home from school. Nicole told her that girls called her fat and talked about her scars from a liver transplant she had when she was 5.Weeks says her daughter loved pandas and wanted to be on "America Idol" when she got older.Police have charged an 18-year-old Virginia Tech student, David Eisenhauer of Columbia, Maryland, with first-degree murder and abduction. Another Tech student, 19-year-old Natalie Marie Keepers of Laurel, Maryland, is charged with improper disposal of a body and accessory after the fact in the commission of a felony.Police say Lovell's remains were found Saturday in Surry County, North Carolina.(Corrects that mother of slain teen spoke to The Washington Post, not The Roanoke Times)___4:05 a.m.A 13-year-old girl who police say was abducted and killed by a Virginia Tech student is being remembered by friends as an "angel" on Earth.Eighteen-year-old David Eisenhauer has been charged with first-degree murder and abduction in the death of Nicole Madison Lovell, whose body was found over the weekend in North Carolina.Another Virginia Tech student, 19-year-old Natalie Keepers, also faces charges in connection with Lovell's death.Davy Draper, who said he's a close family friend of the Lovells and knew the teen most of her life, called her an energetic and outspoken girl who got along with everyone.A spokesman for the Blacksburg Police Department said officials didn't yet know when the two suspects would make their first court appearances.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















