
  




White House Brief: Things to Know About Hillary Clinton - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|White House Brief: Things to Know About Hillary Clinton



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QSfkKI




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
White House Brief: Things to Know About Hillary Clinton

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 3:33 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



DES MOINES, Iowa —  Hillary Clinton finds herself in a surprisingly intense contest as her chief rival's late surge revives memories of her surprising loss to then-Illinois Sen. Barack Obama in Iowa in 2008. The former secretary of state is now offering harsher critiques of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, while working to avoid alienating supporters she would need in the general election. Here's a quick look at some things to know about her.







___THE BRIEFClinton entered the race as the prohibitive front-runner. But after months of dominating polls, she is in a tough race against Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders.Clinton has devoted significant time and money to Iowa, a state won by Barack Obama in 2008, and hopes her organizational strength there will best Sanders' grassroots enthusiasm. In New Hampshire, she faces a tougher contest, given Sanders' decades representing bordering Vermont in Congress. She hopes to use her strength with minority voters to beat him in later contests held in Southern states.Though many Democratic strategists still predict she will capture the nomination, they now expect the race to continue into the spring. That's brought on fears that a contentious primary could leave Clinton in a weaker position for the general election if she in fact becomes the nominee.___RESUME REVIEWLawyer, senator, first lady, diplomat. In Arkansas, she was a lawyer at a top firm while Bill Clinton was governor. In the White House, she advised her husband and oversaw an ill-fated health care overhaul. As a senator from New York, she worked across the aisle to secure benefits for Sept. 11 responders. Her vote for the Iraq invasion became a point of contention in 2008. She later described her support as a "mistake." At the State Department, she was a hawkish member of Obama's national security team as secretary of state, who helped set the foundation for nuclear talks with Iran.___SIGNATURE ISSUEIn a primary dominated by economic issues, Clinton has spent time trying to distinguish herself from Sanders with her foreign policy record. Over the past few months, she's given a series of speeches laying out detailed plans for combating the rise of the Islamic State group abroad and terrorism at home.To highlight her experience, she frequently tells voters about being in the Situation Room with Obama when Osama bin Laden was killed. And she's charged Sanders with having a naive view of global complexities."The challenges a president has to grapple with are beyond complicated, both at home and abroad," she told voters in Iowa. "That's why it's the hardest job in the world. I've seen it up close and personal, and I know what it takes."___DEBATE DIGESTWhile Clinton has displayed a comfortable command of the debate stage, one of her best moments came courtesy of rival Sanders. In the first match-up, Sanders dismissed questions about her private server. "The American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn emails!" he said.Clinton responded by reaching out to shake his hand.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
That exchange has largely neutralized the email issue in the Democratic contest. But it's bound to be a different story in the fall if she's the Democrat running in the general election. Republicans still have plenty to say about it.__MOMENT TO REMEMBERAs secretary of state, Clinton presided over a key piece of the government's reaction to the deadly 2012 assaults on a diplomatic compound and CIA quarters in Benghazi, Libya. The attacks, which killed Chris Stevens, the U.S. ambassador to Libya, and three other Americans, quickly became a political rallying cry for Republicans. And Clinton, as the front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination, became their prime political target.In October, she took the stand before the special House committee investigating the attacks. She remained largely unflappable through the 11-hour hearing, using it to display a presidential presence under a barrage of questions. The commanding performance bolstered Democratic enthusiasm for her bid and quieted some of the political clamor over her response to the attacks at the State Department.___PLEASE FORGETClinton has been dogged by questions over her use of a private server located in her home as secretary of state. A month before she announced her presidential bid, she held a news conference to address the matter. During 20 minutes of questions, Clinton said she used the personal account over a government-issued one for "convenience.""I thought it would be easier to carry just one device for my work and for my personal emails instead of two," she said.It later came out that Clinton used both an iPad and a BlackBerry during her time at the agency — a charge that's kept alive Republican efforts to paint her as untrustworthy.___ONLINE AND SOCIAL MEDIATwitter:http://twitter.com/hillaryclinton





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















