
  




NYC: Deal Reduces Tourism Helicopter Traffic by 50 Percent - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





N.Y. / Region|NYC: Deal Reduces Tourism Helicopter Traffic by 50 Percent



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Klu2bS




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



N.Y. / Region 
NYC: Deal Reduces Tourism Helicopter Traffic by 50 Percent

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 9:21 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



NEW YORK —  Helicopter operators carrying tourists over New York City landmarks have agreed to a gradual reduction in tours to 50 percent by next year, meaning tens of thousands fewer trips and quieter homes and neighborhoods, officials said Sunday.The plan calls for the number of flights from the Downtown Manhattan Heliport to be reduced by next January, trimming nearly 30,000 flights annually. All tourist flights would end on Sundays beginning April 1. Overall flights would be reduced by 20 percent by June 1 and 40 percent by Oct. 1.The agreement was jointly announced by the New York City Economic Development Corp. and the Helicopter Tourism and Jobs Council. If the goal is not reached, further flight cutbacks will result, officials said.Mayor Bill de Blasio, quoted in a joint release, said the deal will "significantly cut down on the number of helicopter tours near residential areas and major parks, while keeping this part of our tourism sector active and viable."He added: "Everyone gave a little to get to this outcome, but the solution will mean a more livable city for everyone."The resolution came more than two months after the New York City Council staged a public hearing after some council members proposed banning the helicopters. Residents complained that the sightseeing tours cause daylong noise and contribute to pollution.John Dellaportas, president of a Stop the Chop community group that opposes the flights and argues that they negatively affect children and military veterans in particular, called the outcome a "sweetheart deal" that was negotiated in secret and without community input."This so-called compromise actually entrenches the helicopter industry while doing nothing for New York City families, students, park goers and workers," he said in a statement. "We will continue to push for a full ban and expect the City Council to see through this PR ploy for what it is."Some city government and helicopter tourism industry officials praised the deal, which came together Friday.Maria Torres-Springer, president of the New York City Economic Development Corp., said it will improve the quality of life for New Yorkers who live in waterfront communities while preserving an important tourism industry and supporting transportation.Ron Ricciardi, president of Saker Aviation, said the deal was in the "interests of all stakeholders."The joint press release touting the deal included praise for the compromise from City Council members who had introduced legislation pushing for action. They promised to continue to monitor the issue.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















