
  




Aetna Tops 4Q Expectations, but 2016 Outlook Falls Short - The New York Times


















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Aetna Tops 4Q Expectations, but 2016 Outlook Falls Short



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KRNZlw




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Aetna Tops 4Q Expectations, but 2016 Outlook Falls Short

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 8:27 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Aetna wrapped up 2015 with a 38-percent surge in fourth quarter earnings but chased its better-than-expected performance with 2016 guidance that misses Wall Street forecasts.The nation's third largest health insurer said Monday it expects adjusted earnings of at least $7.75 per share in the new year. Analysts had been looking for per-share earnings $8.05, according to a poll by the data firm FactSet.Aetna recorded adjusted earnings of $7.71 per share in 2015. The insurer said its initial, 2016 guidance factors in an expected first-quarter drop in commercial health insurance enrollment and an anticipated modest rise in medical cost trends, among other factors.The 2016 forecast likely will not surprise investors, according to Goldman Sachs analyst Matthew Borsch. He said in a research note that Aetna, like other insurers, starts its forecasts conservatively and does not factor in gains the company will record due to leftover insurance claims.Aetna also said Monday that it still expects to close its roughly $35 billion acquisition of Medicare Advantage coverage provider Humana in the second half of the year. Chairman and CEO Mark Bertolini said in a statement from the company that Aetna has been working diligently with federal and state regulators on a final approval.Aetna's deal and competitor Anthem's pending acquisition of Cigna Corp. have stoked worry about competition in insurance markets, but Aetna executives have said its business largely complements Humana's.Wedbush analyst Sarah James said in a research note that she is growing increasingly confident that the deal will close in the second half of the year.In the final quarter of 2015, Aetna earned $320.8 million. That compares with a $232 million profit recorded in the final quarter of 2014, when it also booked an $89.3 million charge from paying off debt early.Adjusted earnings totaled $1.37 per share while operating revenue, which excludes which excludes investment gains, climbed 2 percent to $15.1 billion.Analysts forecast, on average, earnings of $1.20 per share on $14.94 billion in revenue, according to Zacks Investment Research.Health insurance is Aetna's main product, and most of its enrollment comes from commercial coverage sold through employers or directly to individuals. But the insurer and its competitors have been growing their stakes in the government funded Medicare and Medicaid programs.Bertolini told analysts during a Monday conference call that government-related business has become a "key growth engine" for Aetna.The insurer's total medical enrollment came in nearly flat, compared to the final quarter of 2014, at about 23.5 million.Shares of the Hartford, Connecticut, company climbed 92 cents to $102.73 Monday morning while broader indexes slipped less than 1 percent. The stock had fallen roughly 6 percent since the beginning of the year, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index has decreased 5 percent.  Aetna shares climbed about 22 percent last year before closing 2015 at $108.12._____Elements of this story were generated by Automated Insights (http://automatedinsights.com/ap) using data from Zacks Investment Research. Access a Zacks stock report on AET at http://www.zacks.com/ap/AET_____Keywords: Aetna, Earnings Report, Priority Earnings





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















