
  




White House Brief: Things to Know About Ted Cruz - The New York Times



















































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|White House Brief: Things to Know About Ted Cruz



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KkYMtn




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
White House Brief: Things to Know About Ted Cruz

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSFEB. 1, 2016, 3:36 A.M. E.S.T.


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



DES MOINES, Iowa —  Texas Sen. Ted Cruz tries to position himself as the only consistent conservative in the race for president, railing against the "Washington cartel" while pushing a conservative agenda that appeals to the tea party and evangelical wings of the Republican Party. Here's a quick snapshot of things to know about him.







___THE BRIEFTed Cruz has risen from being almost unknown in Iowa to being one of the front-runners. He won election to the Senate in 2012 as a political rookie in Texas, riding a tea party wave to upset a candidate with decades of experience and deep connections inside the Republican Party. He's proceeded since with the same disregard for the GOP establishment, at times maneuvering quixotically in the Senate to mount an aggressive opposition to President Barack Obama. It's an approach that has annoyed fellow Republicans — Arizona Sen. John McCain famously labeled Cruz as one of the Senate's "wacko birds" — but Cruz is unapologetic. As he likes to tell voters in early voting states, "If you see a candidate who Washington embraces, run and hide."___RESUME REVIEWBefore his election to the Senate, Cruz had a career centered on practicing law at the highest level. A graduate of Harvard Law School and clerk for Supreme Court Justice William Rehnquist, Cruz led a Houston-based firm's Supreme Court practice, taught such litigation at the University of Texas and was charged with representing the state before the high court as its solicitor general. He also served in the George W. Bush administration, at both the Federal Trade Commission and as an associate deputy attorney general at the Justice Department.___SIGNATURE ISSUECruz became a favorite of tea party conservatives when for 21 hours and 19 minutes in September 2013, he stood in the Senate to urge Congress to cut off money for Obama's health care law. The speech, during which Cruz read the Dr. Seuss classic "Green Eggs and Ham" to his daughters, said to be watching their father at home, was partly behind a 16-day partial government shutdown the next month. Cruz argues he wants to make the 2016 presidential election a referendum on the health care law and his plans to institute a flat tax, rewriting and simplifying the income tax code. Along the way he wants to abolish the IRS and Education Department, undo the Iranian nuclear deal and build a wall between the U.S. and Mexico border.___DEBATE DIGESTCruz was a collegiate debating champion at Princeton, and he has shown flashes of rhetorical flourish during the debates. He got one of the loudest ovations of any debate in October when he skewered questions being asked by the moderators. "How about talking about the substantive issues people care about?" Cruz asked as the crowd roared its approval. It's a clip his campaign now plays at town-hall meetings. But Cruz's aggressive debate strategy backfired when he questioned rival Donald Trump's adherence to liberal "New York values." Trump pivoted by blasting Cruz for not mentioning the bravery of first responders killed in the 9-11 attacks and how the city came together.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
___MOMENT TO REMEMBERCruz released a parody video the week before Christmas, showing him reading holiday classics to his children like "How Obamacare Stole Christmas" and "Rudolph the Underemployed Reindeer." The video helped Cruz advance his political agenda, showed a sense of humor — if at someone else's expense — and racked up nearly 1.9 million views in five weeks. Cruz has also employed humor with an edge on Twitter. When Trump refused to participate in the last debate before the Iowa caucuses, Cruz posted a link to the song "Brave Sir Robin Ran Away" from "Monty Python and the Holy Grail." And when Trump called Cruz "nasty," the senator responded by posting a link to Janet Jackson's music video from her song by that name.____PLEASE FORGETCruz has a lot of enemies who aren't afraid to talk about their distaste for the firebrand senator. But perhaps his harshest critic has been his old college roommate, Craig Mazin, now a Hollywood screenwriter. Mazin was quoted in 2013 as saying, "I would rather have anybody else be the president of the United States. Anyone. I would rather pick somebody from the phone book." Mazin remains active in lambasting Cruz on Twitter. The attacks on Cruz's personality from Mazin and others have become so persistent that Cruz is now trying to use them to his advantage. "If you want someone to grab a beer with," he said in a debate, "I may not be that guy. But if you want someone to drive you home, I will get the job done and I will get you home."___ONLINE AND SOCIAL MEDIATwitter:http://twitter.com/sentedcruzhttp://twitter.com/tedcruzInstagram:https://www.instagram.com/cruzforpresident/http://instagram.com/sentedcruzFacebook:https://www.facebook.com/tedcruzpage





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















