
  




ADT in $6.9 Billion Deal to Sell Itself to Apollo Buyout Firm - The New York Times



































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





DealBook|ADT in $6.9 Billion Deal to Sell Itself to Apollo Buyout Firm



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KTQNDY




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement











 



Supported by




ADT in $6.9 Billion Deal to Sell Itself to Apollo Buyout Firm

By LESLIE PICKERFEB. 16, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






ADT traces its roots to Edward A. Calahan, the man who invented the stock ticker in 1867.

Credit
            Shannon Stapleton/Reuters        


The ADT Corporation, which provides home and business security systems for 6.5 million customers, is being acquired by the private equity firm Apollo Global Management for $6.9 billion in the largest leveraged buyout so far this year.Apollo intends to merge ADT with Protection 1 and ASG Security, two other security companies that the firm agreed to purchase last May, although they will all operate under the ADT name. The combined company would create pro forma annual revenue surpassing $4.2 billion.ADT traces its roots to Edward A. Calahan, the man who invented the stock ticker in 1867. When Mr. Calahan, the president of Calahan’s Gold and Stock Telegraph Company, found a burglar in his home, he created a telegraph-based alert system. After more than a century of acquisitions and antitrust rulings, ADT was acquired by Tyco in 1997. Tyco decided to be broken up into three units in 2012, making ADT once again an independent company.ADT was the last of Tyco’s largest former subsidiaries to be acquired. The company first merged its flow-control unit with Pentair in 2012. In January, the security and fire-safety systems company that maintained the Tyco name decided to combine with Johnson Controls.ADT agreed to be acquired by Apollo for $42 a share, or a 56 percent premium over ADT’s closing price on Feb. 12, according to a news release issued by the company on Tuesday.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

An analyst at William Blair, a financial services firm, said one catalyst for the offer by Apollo was the drop in ADT’s stock price after the company reported earnings for the first quarter of the 2016 fiscal year that showed a decline in free-cash flow before special items. On Tuesday, ADT’s stock surged 47.5 percent to $39.64 — a few dollars shy of the takeover price. About 21 percent of ADT’s shares outstanding were sold short, so a lot of that gain was from investors covering those positions, said the William Blair analyst Nicholas Heymann.While the board of directors approved the transaction, the deal includes a “go shop” period, in which ADT can solicit other bids that it might deem superior, over the next 40 days.Timothy J. Whall, president and chief executive of Protection 1, will lead the combined business. Protection 1’s “commercial presence” will help ADT expand into that customer base by increasing sales and technical skills in that area, Mr. Whall said.In a market that has been inhospitable to leveraged buyouts, the ADT deal is the largest in 2016. Only 10 leveraged buyouts have occurred so far this year, with none before ADT surpassing $1.5 billion in value, according to data compiled by Dealogic.This month, another large private equity deal, Apollo Education agreed to be taken private for $1.1 billion by a consortium led by the Vistria Group that also included Apollo Global Management and Najafi Companies.Under the ADT deal, funds managed by Apollo and its co-investors will provide $4.5 billion for the transaction. The deal will also be financed by $1.6 billion through new first-lien loans and $3.1 billion in second-lien loans, as well as $750 million in preferred securities through the investment arm of Koch Industries, according to the statement. Barclays, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank and Royal Bank of Canada are providing the financing and they have provided financial advice to Protection 1.The acquisition is expected to be completed by June, subject to shareholder approval and antitrust waiting periods.Ian Zaffino, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Company, said the deal was “highly likely” to be completed. He said the price Apollo was paying was fair, when compared with estimates for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for 2016.Goldman Sachs is serving as the lead financial adviser to ADT, while Bank of America is also providing financial advice, and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett has given legal advice. Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison are advising Protection 1 and Apollo.

A version of this article appears in print on February 17, 2016, on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: ADT in $6.9 Billion Deal to Be Acquired by Apollo.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










University of Phoenix Owner, Apollo Education Group, Will Be Taken Private
FEB. 8, 2016
























Related Coverage







University of Phoenix Owner, Apollo Education Group, Will Be Taken Private
FEB. 8, 2016













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















