
  




Apple vs. the F.B.I.: How the Case Could Play Out - The New York Times











































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|Apple vs. the F.B.I.: How the Case Could Play Out



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1T2O9xZ




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
Apple vs. the F.B.I.: How the Case Could Play Out

MARCH 20, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo







Credit
            Andrew Sondern/The New York Times        


Apple is getting ready for a busy week.On Monday, the company is holding an event at its Silicon Valley headquarters to unveil smaller versions of its iPhone and iPad Pro. Then on Tuesday, Apple will face off against the United States government at a hearing in federal court in Riverside, Calif., over whether it must help law enforcement break into an iPhone used by a gunman in last year’s San Bernardino, Calif., terrorist attack.The iPhone case has proved to be particularly divisive. According to a New York Times/CBS News poll, 50 percent of respondents said Apple should accede to the government and help unlock the iPhone, while 45 percent were opposed. Overall, people’s attitudes toward surveillance appear to have softened, with a quarter saying the federal government infringes too much on privacy, down from nearly half in a similar poll two years ago.Katie Benner, who is covering Apple’s legal entanglements from San Francisco, and Matt Apuzzo, who covers national security from Washington, recently debated the iPhone case and what to expect from Tuesday’s hearing:Katie Benner Hi, Matt. What do you make of how dramatic this fight has gotten? Over the last month, each round of court filings has gotten a little testier.Matt Apuzzo A lot of it’s been theater, but — and here I go getting all rah-rah — it isn’t necessarily a bad thing that people are being asked to think in a really big way about law and policy. I can’t think of a case in which a novel legal argument has captured the attention of so many people. Everyone has a phone. Everyone gets this debate.Katie Agreed. So give us the government’s strongest arguments.Matt Let’s start with the weakest arguments — it’s more fun that way.The government began by saying this case was just about opening this one iPhone. That is by far the weakest argument. Even the government has now walked away from that one. Everyone realizes this is a precedent-setting case. 



                Breaking Down Apple’s iPhone Fight With the U.S. Government            

                The technology company has been locked in a major legal battle against law enforcement officials over privacy and security.            











On the strong argument side, the Justice Department has been unfairly mocked by some about the fact that it’s relying on a law from the 1700s — the All Writs Act — to justify opening this phone. Continue reading the main story







Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





The fact that the law is two centuries old just tells you that it’s a core tenet of our judicial system. I think the Department of Justice has stronger footing with this than people give it credit for. The All Writs Act says that government lawyers can say, “Judge, you have the authority to enforce your own orders.” That’s not a controversial argument, on the face of it.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Katie, what are Apple’s arguments?Katie I’m going to answer in broad strokes because Apple’s arguments are complicated.Essentially, Apple’s main argument is that the All Writs Act, which is used when there is a gap in the law, doesn’t permit the court to force Apple to write new code for the government. The company bolsters its position by arguing that the government’s request doesn’t even fall into a gap in existing law. Apple says that a law called the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, which broadly says when and how companies must help the government with electronic surveillance, addresses the D.O.J.’s request in this case. Congress has thought about adding tech companies like Apple to Calea but decided against doing so.Apple argues that Congress’s declining to amending that law is the same thing as saying that tech companies are exempt from the existing rule. So the All Writs Act is moot here, Apple contends.Apple also makes constitutional arguments, including one that addresses the First Amendment. The company says that code is a form of free speech and that compelling people to write it — in this case to help unlock an iPhone — is infringing on their constitutional rights.One analogy, perhaps, would be the government telling journalists to help an investigation by writing an article that includes specific elements and then publishing it on the front page. I can’t imagine a lot of journalists who would want to do that.Matt Well, judges try to avoid ruling on constitutional questions. My money is on the likelihood that this case will come down to the judge’s reading of the All Writs Act. There, the government argument is based on cases that long predate any of the mobile technology we have now. To make its case, the government is arguing that something like rewriting a mobile operating system today is essentially the same as leasing old-fashioned telephone wires in the 1970s.The bigger issue here is this: Has all this modern technology made existing law obsolete? I’m not sure I buy your First Amendment comparison between writing code and writing a newspaper article only because there really is not a predigital analogy that works here.Katie Yes! None of the laws we have now anticipated a world in which communications could be global and completely encrypted. We need new laws, and Congress may be pressured to deliver some.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Matt I’m not holding my breath that we get legislation out of Congress in the midst of an election cycle, with the parties so divided that they can’t consider a Supreme Court justice. Whatever we get will be imperfect, which isn’t a terrible thing. Political compromise is part of the process.Katie Matt, you’re such a believer in our imperfect democracy. I’m singing the national anthem in my mind.Matt Just hum it. We get it.But seriously, one thing I do hear from those in federal law enforcement a lot is that they would be fine with losing the authority to search and wiretap devices like the iPhone — but only if the American people change their expectations of law enforcement.If privacy overrides security here, a lot of agents will say fine. Just don’t expect them to prevent every attack and solve every crime. And honestly, as a country, we’ve made that decision on guns. We accept a certain amount of gun crime and resist infringement on the Second Amendment.Let me ask you this. Do you think for Apple, the stakes really are as high as it says? We have reported that the company is already at work on a software update that would make it impossible for the government to break into a locked iPhone, even with the methods it is asking Apple about now in this case. And Apple can drag this case out for a year. The courts would not be able to keep up with the innovation.Katie But this is the government asking Apple to find a way to go back and weaken something — iPhone security — that it has already created.If the government gets that, it could order Apple to roll back or find ways to break into any future innovation. The government might later be able to say, we need you to weaken something else, something different, because you did it before with a different — now obsolete — part of your system.Matt You are headed to the hearing on Tuesday. What scene are you expecting?Katie Protesters are already saying they’ll be at the courthouse. Court officials are saying they expect huge lines to get the few available seats. And supporters on all sides will probably show up. So in short: chaos.

A version of this article appears in print on March 21, 2016, on page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Playing Out the Case of Apple vs. the F.B.I.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










Apple Encryption Engineers, if Ordered to Unlock iPhone, Might Resist
MARCH 17, 2016













Apple and Justice Dept. Trade Barbs in iPhone Privacy Case
MARCH 15, 2016












NEWS ANALYSIS 

In the Apple Case, a Debate Over Data Hits Home
MARCH 13, 2016













Apple and U.S. Bitterly Turn Up Volume in iPhone Privacy Fight
MARCH 10, 2016













Justice Dept. Appeals Ruling in Apple iPhone Case in Brooklyn
MARCH 7, 2016
























Related Coverage







Apple Encryption Engineers, if Ordered to Unlock iPhone, Might Resist
MARCH 17, 2016













Apple and Justice Dept. Trade Barbs in iPhone Privacy Case
MARCH 15, 2016












NEWS ANALYSIS 

In the Apple Case, a Debate Over Data Hits Home
MARCH 13, 2016















Apple and U.S. Bitterly Turn Up Volume in iPhone Privacy Fight
MARCH 10, 2016













Justice Dept. Appeals Ruling in Apple iPhone Case in Brooklyn
MARCH 7, 2016












Show All





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















