
  




Apple Is Rolling Up Backers in iPhone Privacy Fight Against F.B.I. - The New York Times
































































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|Apple Is Rolling Up Backers in iPhone Privacy Fight Against F.B.I.



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/24EhR0C




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
Apple Is Rolling Up Backers in iPhone Privacy Fight Against F.B.I.

By NICK WINGFIELD and KATIE BENNERMARCH 3, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Outside an Apple Store in New York. Apple is defying a federal order to help unlock a phone connected to shootings in California.

Credit
            Shannon Stapleton/Reuters        


Google, Amazon, Facebook, Microsoft and a parade of other technology companies filed a barrage of court briefs on Thursday, aiming to puncture the United States government’s legal arguments against Apple in a case that will test the limits of the authorities’ access to personal data.The extraordinary show of support for Apple from the tech companies, including many rivals, underscores how high the stakes are for the industry with the case, in which the authorities are demanding Apple’s help to break into an iPhone used by a gunman in a terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Calif., last year.In all, around 40 companies and organizations, along with several dozen individuals, submitted more than a dozen briefs this week to the Federal District Court for the District of Central California, challenging every legal facet of the government’s case, like its free speech implications, the importance of encryption and concerns about government overreach.“These companies, which are often fierce competitors, have joined together to voice concern about the attempted government overreach in this case, which threatens the integrity and security of their products and privacy rights of consumers in general,” said Neal Katyal, a lawyer at Hogan Lovells for the tech companies and a former acting solicitor general of the United States.
Photo






Tech firms were initially careful in their support of Apple in its fight with the F.B.I., but now they are more forcefully backing Apple.

Credit
            Philippe Huguen/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        


Edward J. McAndrew, a lawyer at Ballard Spahr who is not involved in the Apple matter, said it was highly unusual to see a flood of briefs by so many parties this early in a case. He called the outpouring “Supreme Court-level advocacy” and said the campaign was intended to have influence beyond the court with legislators and others.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“This is a show of force,” said Mr. McAndrew, a former federal prosecutor who focused on online crimes. “This is a battle for public opinion.”Bruce Sewell, Apple’s general counsel, said on Wednesday that the company was “humbled by the outpouring of support.” Continue reading the main story







Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





The case between Apple and the government became public last month, when a federal magistrate judge in California ordered the company to bypass the security functions on the iPhone. Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, opposed the order, arguing the case could have far-reaching implications for other devices and software, with governments everywhere able to demand more access to tech companies’ data.Several tech companies were initially careful and subdued in their support of Apple, with some privately debating whether the San Bernardino attack was the right case for challenging the government. Last week, some tech companies including Microsoft began to back Apple more forcefully, saying they planned to file briefs supporting it in court. 








                    OPEN Document                



            Document: Tech Companies’ Court Brief        


In the brief on Thursday from Amazon, Microsoft and others, the tech companies said they shared the public’s outrage over the “heinous act of terrorism” in San Bernardino, but said they were united in the view that the government’s case exceeded the boundaries of existing law and would hurt Americans’ security.A collection of 17 Internet companies, including Twitter, Airbnb and LinkedIn, filed a separate brief objecting to the government’s use of the All Writs Act, a statute from 1789 that underlies many law enforcement requests for tech companies’ data, in the San Bernardino case. AT&T; and Intel also submitted independent briefs backing Apple.In the filing from the group that includes Twitter and LinkedIn, the companies said the government “seeks unbounded authority to compel Apple to design software that does not currently exist and that will circumvent and undermine security measures intended to protect its users’ data.”“We’re facing a very big question as a country, industry and a world about what privacy will look like in the digital era,” said Aaron Levie, the chief executive of the data storage company Box, which signed on to the brief with Amazon, Google and others. “There is a global impact for these tech companies if we don’t land on the right side of having a strong framework for how companies deal with security and these kinds of requests in the digital age.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Apart from the tech companies, seven prominent security experts and 32 law professors signed on to joint briefs on Thursday. Several industry trade organizations and digital rights groups submitted their own filings this week. 










            Breaking Down Apple’s iPhone Fight With the U.S. Government        


Some echoed Apple’s slippery slope argument that opening up one iPhone would lead to a domino effect from governments worldwide. The Media Institute, a nonprofit research foundation that focuses on communications policy, warned in its filing that the court’s order could be “be applied against media companies as government authorities seek to acquire access to confidential information stored on mobile devices used by journalists.”The support for Apple was a torrent compared with the stream of filings backing the Justice Department in the case. Among the staunchest supporters on the side of government were six people whose family members were killed in the California attack.“Broader questions about the fate of smartphone encryption and data privacy can be saved for another day and another forum,” the families wrote in a brief. “This case certainly presents the conditions — a mass murder by terrorists implicating national security interest — where requiring Apple’s technical assistance is at its apex.”Stephen G. Larson, the lawyer representing the victims’ families, said he was frustrated that Apple was drawing a line in the sand “over a phone that didn’t even belong to the terrorist and that they have permission to unlock.” The iPhone of the San Bernardino attacker, Syed Rizwan Farook, was issued by his employer.“So many of Apple’s arguments are red herrings because this is not about privacy more than any other search in a criminal investigation is about privacy,” Mr. Larson said. “That is scaremongering and that is false.”


            Related Coverage        









A handful of law enforcement groups also filed briefs supporting the government’s position, including a joint one from the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the Association of Prosecuting Attorneys and the National Sheriffs’ Association.Those groups listed several instances when iPhone data was an essential piece of a criminal case, including child pornography and sex trafficking cases. They argued that criminals were moving to iPhones because of Apple’s refusal to help the government and that the company was making data extraction from its products impossible.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“If Apple can refuse lawful court orders to reasonably assist law enforcement, public safety will suffer,” the trade groups wrote.Not all family members of San Bernardino victims sided with the government. This week, Salihin Kondoker, whose wife, Anies, was shot three times but survived the attack, wrote a letter to the court saying he thought there was little valuable information on the iPhone used by the gunman. Mr. Kondoker said Apple’s fight was about something bigger than one phone.“They are worried that this software the government wants them to use will be used against millions of other innocent people,” he wrote. “I share their fear.”

Nick Wingfield reported from Seattle, and Katie Benner from San Francisco. Mike Isaac contributed reporting from New York.
A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 2016, on page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Tech Rivals Lining Up  to Support  Apple’s Case.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










Apple Gets Tech Industry Backing in iPhone Dispute, Despite Misgivings
MARCH 2, 2016









Defense Secretary Takes Position Against a Data ‘Back Door’
MARCH 2, 2016













White House Officials Soften Approach at RSA Conference
MARCH 1, 2016


























Conversation Starters
Provocative looks at pressing issues.








                                Donald Trump Isn’t Alone in Exploiting the Word ‘University’            
MAR 21








                                A Reconsideration of Children and Screen Time            
MAR 21








                                Amid a Graying Fleet of Nuclear Plants, a Hunt for Solutions            
MAR 21








                                Empathy May Be Overrated in an Election, and in a Leader            
MAR 21








                                John Roberts Criticized Supreme Court Confirmation Process, Before There Was a Vacancy            
MAR 21






See More »








Related Coverage







Apple Gets Tech Industry Backing in iPhone Dispute, Despite Misgivings
MARCH 2, 2016













Defense Secretary Takes Position Against a Data ‘Back Door’
MARCH 2, 2016









White House Officials Soften Approach at RSA Conference
MARCH 1, 2016













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















