
  




Apps to Protect Your Array of Passwords - The New York Times











































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Personal Tech|Apps to Protect Your Array of Passwords



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/17s82ms




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Personal Tech 
Apps to Protect Your Array of Passwords



App Smart 
By                     
 KIT EATON
 
OCT. 16, 2013




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Video

App Smart: Managing Your Passwords


Three apps to keep your passwords safe, as reviewed by The Times’s Kit Eaton.

                    By Dallas Jensen on                                                                Publish Date October 16, 2013.
                                    


Watch in Times Video »







embed










We all know that we need to use strong passwords on Web sites. In fact, a different password for every site you frequent is wise.Good Web security hygiene creates two problems, however. First, you have to remember all those different passwords. Second, if you lose your smartphone, your many passwords may be at risk.But there are various password manager apps meant to solve those problems. The best-known password manager app is 1Password by AgileBits. This app keeps your many Web site passwords, for your bank and so on, safely locked up. It also can keep track of other data like passport details, addresses and more.
Photo






1Password safely stores personal data, and it has an automatic strong password generator, too. Its price tag, $18, is high, though.


The app has a plain yet attractive interface that makes using it a breeze, because its various icons and controls are obvious at one glance.Tapping the “+” icon brings up a menu that offers you many data categories, like bank account numbers, e-mail details and wireless router passwords. You simply select the appropriate category and enter as much data in the boxes on the next page as you prefer. All your entries are then listed in the main app, and you can group them into folders if you want to keep work and home data separate.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

1Password also has a secure browser built into it. It allows you to surf to your bank’s Web site, in one typical case, where it will automatically enter your passwords for you or enter credit card details into shopping sites.If you think your passwords are too weak, 1Password has an automatic strong password generator that will randomly put together a complex password for you. These may be harder to remember than your usual passwords but, of course, the app remembers them for you.
Photo






OneSafe stores passwords, credit card data and personal documents.


This app excels in security. There’s a master password that protects your data, and data stored inside the app is encrypted — which makes it safe even if someone steals your device. Its main downside is the price: It’s $18 on iOS. There is a free Android version, but it’s much simpler and you can’t enter new data.LastPass is an alternative password and personal data manager available on iOS and Android. It also stores Web site passwords, credit card information and more behind a master password. It’s also designed with simplicity in mind: there’s no getting lost in overly complex menus.Although it’s simpler than 1Password, it still has some nice features. It can upload photos or videos to “secure notes” that you store inside the app, so you can keep snippets of text or media private. It’s similar to 1Password in use and quality. But there is one issue: While the app is free, to make the most of all its powers, like automatically filling in details on Web sites, you have to pay a subscription of $12 a year.A great alternative to these two, on iOS only, is the $6 app oneSafe. This app has cuter graphics than its rivals and it offers most of the same features.
Photo






The Wolfram Password Generator Reference App, creates secure passwords.


It stores passwords, credit card data and personal documents, and it locks them up securely, so if you lose your device, your data is safe. Its great design makes it easy to use, and it has a couple of nice extras. For example, if you prefer not to use a secure “master” password to access the app, you can use a pattern lock access — where you swipe a unique pattern on the screen with your finger. It also can automatically alert you if someone tries to access your data.A rough equivalent to oneSafe is Keeper. It’s popular, and though it looks different from oneSafe, it definitely has an emphasis on ease of use through a simple design. Like 1Password and LastPass, Keeper can automatically fill in Web site logins and card data for you. It even includes a neat feature that lets you share some of your information with someone you trust. Keeper is available on Android, as well as on iOS.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

To help you create really strong passwords that may foil all but the most determined hackers, you can check out the $1 iOS app Wolfram Password Generator Reference App. This app uses high-powered math to come up with tricky passwords full of numbers, letters and other characters that you can use for your accounts. It’ll even tell you how long it should take to crack them. Quick Calls
 Classic do-it-yourself magazine Family Handyman has a new app jammed with tips for your home improvement projects. It’s free on iOS, though you can upgrade to a “pro” version with more tips for $5. ... A major upgrade to Twitter for Windows Phone 8, which is 
free, added new features like suggestions for users to follow. If you’ve not tried Twitter before, now’s a good time.

A version of this article appears in print on October 17, 2013, on page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Apps to Protect Your Array of Passwords.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story






















App Smart
A collection of “App Smart” columns published in The New York Times.








                                Checklists and Tips to Help Streamline Spring Cleaning            
MAR 16








                                Mobile Games to Make Time Fly            
MAR 9








                                Keeping Tabs on the SXSW Interactive Scene            
MAR 2








                                The Best Apps for Delivering Celebrity News            
FEB 24








                                Find Out What’s New in Smartphones at Mobile World Congress            
FEB 17






See More »







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















