
  




Art World Prepares for a Challenging Year - The New York Times



































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





International Arts|Art World Prepares for a Challenging Year



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QL8xCD




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



International Arts 
Art World Prepares for a Challenging Year

By SCOTT REYBURNJAN. 29, 2016


Inside








Photo






Pablo Picasso’s ‘‘Tete de Femme,’’ a 1935 study of his lover Marie-Thérèse Walter.

Credit
            2016 Estate of Pablo Picasso/Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



LONDON — So now it’s official: The art market boom has peaked, according to figures from Christie’s and Sotheby’s, the biggest international auction houses.







In late January, the companies released their 2015 results, with each reporting a slight decrease in year-over-year sales. It was the first year since 2010 that both failed to show an increase.Christie’s, a private company based in London, reported auctions and private sales of 4.8 billion pounds (about $6.8 billion) in 2015, a decline in pounds of about 5 percent from 2014. Equivalent sales at Sotheby’s, which is publicly traded and based in New York, were $6.6 billion, about 1 percent less than in 2014.Those figures do not represent a burst bubble, but they do suggest that 2016 is going to be challenging for the art market, reflecting the volatility of the wider world.“The froth has been skimmed off,” said Paul Ress, chief executive of Right Capital, which provides loans secured by art to dealers and collectors. Mr. Ress said that the collapse in the price of oil had taken “a huge amount of cash” out of the art market.
Photo






Peter Doig’s 1991 canvas ‘‘The The Architect’s Home in the Ravine.’’

Credit
            Peter Doig. All Rights Reserved, DACS 2015        


“There aren’t so many Russians and Brazilians involved now, and the Chinese slowdown has had a knock-on effect on the raw materials and equity markets,” he said. “The potential buyers in the art world won’t be feeling as rich as they did last year.”Christie’s results reveal key shifts in the market in 2015. Bolstered by huge prices in New York for trophy works by artists like Picasso and Modigliani, auction sales of Impressionist and modern art were up 57 percent from 2014 to £1.3 billion (about $1.85 billion), while auction sales of postwar and contemporary art — the main driver of growth from 2009 to 2014 — were down 14 percent to £1.5 billion ($2.1 billion). Year-over-year sales of old master paintings, 19th-century and Russian art shrank 37 percent to £154.9 million (roughly $220.6 million).“It’s a healthy correction,” said Roman Kräussl, an associate professor of finance at the University of Luxembourg and co-author of “Is There a Bubble in the Art Market?,” a research paper that tracked prices from 1970 through 2013, published in January in the Journal of Empirical Finance.Owners, wary of a downturn, have become more reluctant to sell high-value works. Sotheby’s and Christie’s February auctions in London of Impressionist and modern, as well as contemporary, art are smaller and carry lower estimates than their equivalent events last year.Sotheby’s evening sale on Wednesday of Impressionist and modern art contains 54 works, compared with 75 last February. That 2015 auction grossed £186.4 million (about $265.5 million). This week it is expected to raise at least £97.6 million (around $139 million).The evening’s star lot is “Tête de Femme,” a 1935 Picasso study of his lover and muse Marie-Thérèse Walter. It has a low estimate of £16 million (about $22.8 million). Its current owner bought it at Sotheby’s in New York in November 2013 for $39.9 million.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
On Feb. 11, at Christie’s evening contemporary sale, the auction house and a third-party financier are banking that the market for the Scottish painter Peter Doig is bubble-proof. Mr. Doig’s 1991 canvas “The Architect’s Home in the Ravine” is guaranteed to sell against a low estimate of £10 million (about $14.2 million), £2.3 million more than it brought at auction in London three years ago.Overall expectations have also contracted at Christie’s. The 62 lots of its evening contemporary sale have a total minimum valuation of £50.4 million ($71.7 million), almost half the low estimate the company placed on its equivalent 64-lot auction in 2015, which took in £117.1 million (about $166.7 million).With investment-conscious buyers nervous about spending significant sums on works by artists without established reputations, the new category of “20th-century art,” to which the Picasso and the Doig both belong, now dominates the market.Sotheby’s and Christie’s both used the label “20th century” to promote their February sales. And Phillips, whose contemporary auctions used to be synonymous with the hottest emerging names, is holding its inaugural sale of “20th Century and Contemporary Art” in London on Feb. 9. Adding big names from the last century, like de Kooning and de Chirico to Mark Bradford and Tauba Auerbach, helped Phillips realize $523 million in auction sales last year, a 34 percent increase over 2014.But is the market for 20th-century art a bubble about to burst, just as the market for Impressionist art imploded in 1991?Mr. Kräussl doesn’t think so, at least at the very top of the market.“Art is now a must-have for the rich,” he said. “Every collection has to have a Picasso, a Richter, a Warhol.”But he and many other people are less sure about the thousands of lesser-known artists.“I think collectors will be focusing more financial attention on an older generation of artists rather than emerging contemporary,” said Heather Flow, an art adviser in New York. “I think most collectors, rightly so, have been confused about the price fluctuations of younger artists.”Rediscovered, rather than discovered, talent looks to be a recurring theme of a bearish 2016. On Jan. 22, the Italian dealership M&L; Fine Art in London exhibited paintings by Angelo Savelli (1911-1995), a Calabrian-born artist who lived in New York and was influenced by Abstract Expressionism. The works are priced from $27,000 to $163,000.Buyers will be hoping that Savelli will be this year’s Paolo Scheggi, whose auction prices shot up from $353,617 in October 2013 to $1.8 million in May 2015. Savelli’s current auction high is $91,764, set in 2007.


A version of this article appears in print on February 1, 2016, on page C2 of the New York edition with the headline: Christie’s and Sotheby’s Report Decreases in Year-Over-Year Sales.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















