
  




Benoît Violier, Top French-Swiss Chef, Dies at 44 - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Food|Benoît Violier, Top French-Swiss Chef, Dies at 44



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QSygJs




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Food 
Benoît Violier, Top French-Swiss Chef, Dies at 44

By DAN BILEFSKYFEB. 1, 2016


Inside










Photo






Benoît Violier in 2013. The French-Swiss chef was found dead on Sunday at his home in Crissier, near Lausanne, Switzerland.

Credit
            Niels Ackermann/Lundi13        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Benoît Violier, the French-Swiss chef who scaled the heights of gastronomy to preside over a small Swiss restaurant that was named the best in the world in December, has died by what appears to have been suicide. He was 44.







The Swiss police said in a statement that Mr. Violier’s body was found late Sunday at his home in Crissier, Switzerland, near Lausanne. “It would seem that he has ended his life with a firearm,” the statement said.Mr. Violier, a perfectionist known for his acumen in cooking game, ran the Restaurant de l’Hôtel de Ville with his wife, Brigitte. It has been awarded three Michelin stars and in December took the number one spot in La Liste, France’s ranking of 1,000 restaurants in 48 countries.The restaurant’s menu has included dishes like “pigs trotters from the Jura with black truffles and glazed with Madeira wine,” roast Bresse chicken served with “Blue Winter” leeks and truffles, and a “fantasy of shellfish from the Saint-Brieuc Bay served raw in the shell on a delicate velouté.”The precise circumstances of Mr. Violier’s death remained unclear, but other top chefs have been pushed to suicide, buffeted by a high-pressure world that demands perfection and where culinary demigods can be demoted with the stroke of a pen.In 2003, Bernard Loiseau, the chef and owner of the Côte d’Or, a Michelin three-star restaurant in Burgundy, was found dead in his home at 52. Last April, the chef Homaro Cantu, whose Chicago restaurant, Moto, had received a Michelin star, hanged himself. He was 38.According to the French news media, Mr. Violier had been distraught over a slight demotion in the Gault & Millau guide, one of the world’s most influential arbiters of culinary excellence, and was worried that he could lose a star in the next edition of the Michelin guide.Gabriel Waterhouse, a young and innovative British chef, who until recently was at Galvin La Chapelle, which has one Michelin star, said star chefs like Mr. Violier operated in an extremely competitive atmosphere, in which speaking about fears was taboo.“People are quite macho in the industry, and people don’t feel they can really talk about their problems or the stresses of what is being asked of them,” he said.“It is considered a sign of weakness if you complain,” he added, “and that is intensified the higher and higher you go.” 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Puzzling Death of Chicago’s Whirlwind Chef, Homaro Cantu  APRIL 17, 2015







Bitterness Follows French Chef’s Death (Feb. 26, 2003) 






Mr. Violier was born in La Rochelle, a coastal city in western France, to a family of winemakers. In 2013, the Gault & Millau guide named him chef of the year.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Towering figures of French cuisine, like the chefs Paul Bocuse and Marc Veyrat, paid homage to Mr. Violier, some expressing shock and remarking on his culinary artistry, which had garnered him many followers.

The Michelin guide released its list of starred restaurants in France for 2016 on Monday, and although Mr. Violier’s establishment is in Switzerland, he had been planning to attend a ceremony in Paris for the new rankings, according to the Swiss news media. Instead, the proceedings began with a minute of silence for him.

Patricia Zizza, who has worked by Mr. Bocuse’s side for 40 years and has known some of the world’s greatest chefs, including Mr. Violier, said the expectation of creating a masterwork every day could push some chefs to depression and exhaustion.

“Chefs are in the theater and must produce great work, and there is strong pressure to maintain that excellence,” Ms. Zizza said. “It requires an enormous amount of attention, from assuring the quality of the products to directing teams of people. And it entails many sacrifices, including to one’s personal life.”Ms. Zizza said Mr. Violier had been shaken by the death last year of his mentor, the Swiss chef Philippe Rochat, who died after falling ill while cycling. Mr. Violier and his wife began running the Restaurant de l’Hôtel de Ville in 2012, after Mr. Rochat retired. Information about his other survivors was not immediately available.The French Foreign Ministry commissioned La Liste, apparently as a response to the London-based World’s 50 Best Restaurants. The British rankings were criticized by some in France for failing to give French restaurants their due, but other members of the culinary establishment have said that they regard the alternative effort as misguided.

When Mr. Violier was awarded the top place in La Liste’s ranking in December, he responded with characteristic modesty.“I feel a heavy responsibility to be named number one,” he said in an interview with The New York Times. He added that the key to his success was consistency, not flashiness, and he singled out his loyal team, including Louis Villeneuve, his maître d’hôtel, who has been in his post for four decades.“This ranking is a recognition of seriousness, of delivering the same fidelity and level of excellence from the beginning of January to the end of December,” Mr. Violier said. “It’s a great tribute to the team.”


Hannah Olivennes contributed reporting.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















