



BLACKBOARD -  SECURITY -  Here's One Way to Turn Off a Date - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/education, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Education





World
 
U.S.
PoliticsEducationTexas 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








BLACKBOARD: SECURITY
BLACKBOARD: SECURITY; Here's One Way to Turn Off a Date


By Abby Ellin


Published: January 12, 2003









                    THERE'S a home test for pregnancy and a drug test kit for parents. Now there's a do-it-yourself test to see if your drink has been spiked with the date-rape drugs GHB or ketamine -- odorless, colorless sedatives that impair judgment and induce sleep.        

                    The test, made by Drink Safe Technologies in Plantation, Fla., consists of a four-inch cardboard coaster that fits into a purse or pocket. Students can slip it under their beverage and dribble liquid with a swizzle stick or finger on one of two test areas. If the spot turns blue, the drink has been dosed. The company also makes a personal test kit with 20 strips.        

                    The products will be in supermarkets and drug stores early this year, but more than 40 colleges and universities have already ordered them, including the University of Miami and Loyola University in New Orleans. St. Lawrence University in Canton, N.Y., has bought 600 coasters to distribute in the spring.        

                    ''We're working toward developing a proactive and educational approach to distributing the cards,'' said Bettina Straight, assistant director of residential learning communities at St. Lawrence. ''We want them to be used appropriately as an added safety precaution and want to arm our students with information about what to do if they find their drink is contaminated, before or after they have actually ingested some of it.''        

                    Stephen M. Thompson, sexual assault services coordinator at Central Michigan University in Mount Pleasant, is skeptical. For one, the coaster announces its intent: there's a big Drink Safe logo in the center that is designed, its makers say, to scare off potential assailants. But most people who use drugs to subdue a victim are known to their target, Mr. Thompson says, ''and the target feels fairly comfortable drinking with them.''        

                    And, he adds, ''most people are not dosed in bars but at private parties. Realistically, at a party, are you going to have these things with you and test your drink with them? The likelihood is you are not.''   ABBY ELLIN        

                    Photo: (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)          








 














 



















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/education, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Inv1
