
  




BOMBING IN MADRID: SECURITY; Underground In New York, Busy Day For Police Dog - The New York Times














































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





World|BOMBING IN MADRID: SECURITY; Underground In New York, Busy Day For Police Dog



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



World |                    BOMBING IN MADRID: SECURITY                
BOMBING IN MADRID: SECURITY; Underground In New York, Busy Day For Police Dog

By MICHAEL LUOMARCH 13, 2004



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








Driving into Manhattan yesterday morning, Officer Cathy Paladino heard the speculation that Al Qaeda might have had a hand in the bombings of commuter trains in Spain. In the passenger seat was her police dog, Jack, named for a friend's brother who died in the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center.She looked over at him, she said, and thought: ''The dog is going to be working a lot today.''Officer Paladino, 35, and her bomb-sniffing dog work for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority at Grand Central Terminal in Midtown. She said she first heard about the bombings on Thursday, but the news of Al Qaeda's possible involvement surprised her. She sensed that commuters would be edgy, resulting in many more calls about suspicious packages. ''I knew Jack had to be a little more aware today,'' she said.For the second straight day, the police maintained a heightened presence in the New York City region's subways, commuter railroads and transit hubs. Meanwhile, New York police officials sent representatives to Madrid to learn about the attacks.''We're looking for any piece of information we can use, anything that will help us,'' Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said in an interview yesterday. The team will be looking for clues on a variety of issues, including where the explosive devices were placed and how they were detonated, he said. The information will be put into training materials and new programs as quickly as possible, he said. ''We don't have the luxury of time,'' he added. ''We want them to get it, get it back to us, and let's start looking at it here.''Spanish investigators said they believed the bombs had been set off by cellphones, not suicide bombers, Mr. Kelly said. One of the trains was behind schedule by about two minutes and had it been on time, it would have exploded in the terminal, possibly taking the roof off, he said.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The Federal Bureau of Investigation issued a bulletin to state and local police agencies warning them to watch for suspicious activity at train and subway stations, citing people who loiter at stations or packages left on trains or platforms.In addition to the increased uniformed presence on the subways in New York City, more plainclothes investigators, many assigned to the Organized Crime Control Bureau, will be riding the trains.Among other security measures, additional K-9 units were dispatched yesterday to Grand Central, which is used by 700,000 people a day.Even with the extra help, Officer Paladino and Jack, an 85-pound black German shepherd, were much busier than usual yesterday, answering about a dozen calls for suspicious packages, about twice the usual number.The first call of the day, about an unattended black shopping bag on a train, came at 9:11 a.m. Noting the time, she said, she felt a surge of adrenaline. It was also rush hour, on a commuter train, she said, making her think: ''This is very strange.''Emergency service unit officers cleared the train so she and Jack could go to work. He sniffed the black shopping bag but did not sit down, his sign that he has detected explosives. Officer Paladino, who wears a Sept. 11 pin on her police cap, looked inside and found neatly folded clothing and some boxes of food. Someone had forgotten it.There were more calls like this through the day: mostly forgotten luggage. There was even a box full of empty beer cans that Jack quickly cleared of suspicion.Just after 2 p.m., with Jack tugging urgently on his leash on her left side, she began her last sweep of the terminal, a 45-minute patrol through the main concourses and several platforms. She looks for anything out of the ordinary, she said, an unattended bag, a lock to a storage area that might be loose. She does not have Jack inspect everything, because that would exhaust him.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

But, she said, if Jack walked past a trash can full of discarded newspapers, the dog would still be able to pick up the scent of an explosive if one was inside. She ended her patrol around 3 p.m. at a grand staircase in the main terminal, looking out over the crowds for signs of trouble.Two subway stops to the north, a team of about 20 New York City police officers conducted a series of sweeps of trains at the N, R and W platform at 59th Street and Lexington Avenue. For this group, it was the second straight day of inspections, and the line of officers up and down the platform was an intimidating sight.The conductor announced: ''Ladies and gentlemen, we have a police presence inspecting the train. We should be moving shortly.''Sgt. Robert Brady, a transit bureau officer for the past seven years, usually patrols platforms throughout the city, but yesterday he was stepping onto trains, looking around and getting off. He looked at people's hands and tried to make eye contact with as many people as possible, he said.''It gives them a sense of security,'' he said.

William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting for this article.


Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















