
  




Brutal Boko Haram Raid in Nigeria Kills as Many as 100 - The New York Times



































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Africa|Brutal Boko Haram Raid in Nigeria Kills as Many as 100



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/23Ewe4H




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Africa 
Brutal Boko Haram Raid in Nigeria Kills as Many as 100

By ILIYA KURE and DIONNE SEARCEYFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






A woman mourned the death of her husband after the attack by Boko Haram militants on Dalori in northeastern Nigeria.

Credit
            Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



KADUNA, Nigeria — It was a particularly brutal raid, the kind that has become rare in recent months. Dozens of homes were burned to the ground. Children were abducted and carried off into the bush. People seeking refuge under a familiar tree were blown up by a suicide bomber who had infiltrated their ranks.







The suspected perpetrator is a familiar foe to this part of northeastern Nigeria: Boko Haram, the militant Islamic group that has carried out scores of attacks across the region in recent years. On Monday, government officials raised the death toll of the weekend rampage to 65 people, with twice that number injured.Residents of Dalori, the site of the attack, said the death toll was even higher, with as many as 100 dead. Militants descended on Dalori, a small village just outside the Borno State capital, on Saturday evening. They unleashed a torrent of gunfire, setting homes ablaze as suicide bombers attacked fleeing residents.The state capital, Maiduguri, has been a focal point of violence carried out by Boko Haram militants, who attacked the city as recently as late December. The group has carried out numerous attacks across northern Nigeria and neighboring countries in recent weeks after being scattered by a regional team of military forces that moved in and chased the militants out of villages and territory they had seized.But most of the attacks have been carried out by suicide bombers, often by hiding explosives under religious gowns or in bags of vegetables. While devastating, those attacks have been quicker and less complex than sending several fighters to rampage through a village for hours, as appears to have been the case in Dalori, according to witnesses.Some residents in Dalori complained that the authorities had not arrived fast enough to help fight the attackers. In a news release, military officials reassured residents “of the commitment of the military to apprehend and deal with the perpetrators.” Hours before the attack this weekend, military officials announced several aerial bombings of the Sambisa Forest, where fighters are believed to be hiding.While government and military officials maintain that they have wrested control of territory seized by Boko Haram, a handful of people have been showing up in Maiduguri recently, saying their villages have been overtaken.Nigeria faces mounting economic problems because of the falling price of oil, on which its economy is heavily reliant. The country has asked the World Bank and the African Development Bank for $3.5 billion in emergency loans to help fill budget gaps.Separately, attacks on pipelines in the southern state of Bayelsa have unleashed thousands of barrels of oil into farmland and waterways. For years, the country has battled militants hoping to trade the threat of violence for shares in oil revenue.In Dalori, the militants arrived in cars and on motorbikes on Saturday night and began shooting indiscriminately, government officials said. Gunshots could be heard from as far away as residential housing for the University of Maiduguri, about two miles down the road. Some fighters were dressed in military uniforms, witnesses said.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
The militants set fire to as many as 300 homes in the village, burning alive some people who were inside. At least three children were killed, one local government official said.“This put the villagers and the neighborhood into pandemonium,” according to a news release from Nigeria’s National Emergency Management Agency, and they “started running helter-skelter.”Many residents took cover under a huge tree that was a usual evening spot for trading, officials said. Among those gathered were people from a nearby camp that served as a refuge for people who had fled their homes because of Boko Haram violence.As they waited for the mayhem to subside, a suicide bomber sneaked in among the crowd and detonated explosives, killing and injuring numerous people, officials said.One man said his four children had been snatched by fighters who fled with them into the bush.A member of the Civilian Joint Task Force, an anti-Boko Haram vigilante association in the area, said the homes of the group’s members had been attacked in Dalori but that members did not seem to have been singled out. The militants were merely interested in inflicting as much damage as possible.“It is the normal Boko Haram style of attack, where they come and tear down villages,” said Abba Aji Kalli, the task force member. “What they did here was to burn down what they wanted to burn, and took away what they wanted to take.”The attack added to the more than 2.5 million people who have been displaced from their homes across four countries in the region because of violence from Boko Haram. The villagers who lost their homes have nowhere to go. The nearby camp that houses thousands of other displaced people is full.“The entire village is burnt, and the people have nowhere to stay,” said Abdullahi Umar, a spokesman for the Borno State Emergency Management Agency, adding that officials would find accommodations for them somehow. “The state government will also provide them with food. They have lost almost everything: their foodstuff, cattle and the rest.”


Iliya Kure reported from Kaduna, Nigeria, and Dionne Searcey from Dakar, Senegal. Shehu Abubakar contributed reporting from Maiduguri.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















