
  































































 Facebook Security Flaw Publicizes Private Chats - The New York Times






















Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content




The New York Times








                Bits            

|
        Facebook Security Flaw Publicizes Private Chats        
    



Advertisement






Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation









Supported by



 




Search

 








Facebook Security Flaw Publicizes Private Chats


				By 
Nick Bilton
 
May 5, 2010 1:57 pm
May 5, 2010 1:57 pm



 The security flaw allowed users to see active chats and friend requests on a friends pages.
2:22 p.m. | Updated  Including new information about the security flaw and adding comment from Facebook.
8:10 p.m. | 2nd Update Read our latest story on the Facebook privacy flaw: Glitch Heightens Facebook Privacy Concerns

A security flaw was discovered on the Facebook Web site early Wednesday morning that enabled users to see private chats taking place between friends. Another security issue allowed users to see their online friends’ pending social requests.
The major security oversight, which was  reported by TechCrunch, is made visible through a “Preview My Profile…” function on a user’s privacy page, which has been available sin’ce September 2008.
Barry Schnitt, director of policy communications at Facebook, said “the bug was live for a few hours and had nothing to do with the changes from April 21″ during the company’s latest developers’ conference.
Facebook did not notify individual users who had been subjected to the privacy flaw, although Mr. Schnitt said, “We did notify people via the Facebook page (http://www.facebook.com/facebook).”
The chat feature is currently disabled on the site while the company works to rectify the situation. 
In a statement sent to The New York Times and other press outlets, Facebook said it was aware of the bug and working to fix it:
“For a limited period of time, a bug permitted some users’ chat messages and pending friend requests to be made visible to their friends by manipulating the ‘preview my profile’ feature of Facebook privacy settings. When we received reports of the problem, our engineers promptly diagnosed it and temporarily disabled the chat function. We also pushed out a fix to take care of the visible friend requests, which is now complete. Chat will be turned back on across the site shortly. We worked quickly to resolve this matter, ensuring that once the bug was reported to us, a solution was quickly found and implemented.”
Facebook has been under heavy scrutiny for its latest privacy settings since the company announced its new “Connections” feature last month at f8, its yearly developer conference. At the time, Facebook also made changes to its privacy policy and privacy settings. Since then, the company has drawn heavy criticism from consumer watchdogs and government officials.
The Electronic Frontier Foundation, an online civil liberties group, has been highly critical of the site’s newest features. In a blog post last week, the E.F.F. said Facebook’s latest changes to the site reduce control of an individual’s personal  information and don’t offer an easy “opt-out” preference for many of the site’s latest features.
In addition, last week, four United States senators, including Charles E. Schumer of New York, asked the Federal Trade Commission to develop a series of privacy guidelines for social networking Web sites, specifically citing Facebook, MySpace and Twitter, that would give users a standard level of privacy over their personal information.


 

 
Security, Start-ups, 
Facebook, Privacy 


 
What's Next


Loading...










Previous Post




				Google Gives Its Search Results a Facelift			


Next Post




				Has Apple Lost Its Cool?			




Visit the Technology section for complete coverage of the industry. »
Most Viewed 


1.
How Larry Page’s Obsessions Became Google’s Business


2.
Tech’s ‘Frightful 5’ Will Dominate Digital Life for Foreseeable Future


3.
Uber’s No-Holds-Barred Expansion Strategy Fizzles in Germany


4.
Fans Demand Details After Death of a 13-Year-Old YouTube Star


5.
Yahoo’s Brain Drain Shows a Loss of Faith Inside the Company



 

Latest From Bits 
Daily Report: Alphabet Eclipses Apple to Become the Most Valuable CompanyDaily Report: More Earnings, Earnings, EarningsDaily Report: Divergent Fortunes in Cloud ComputingFacebook to Shut Down Parse, Its Platform for Mobile DevelopersDaily Report: Facebook’s Lucrative Long View

 



Follow us on
@nytimesbits on twitter

Twitter
Follow 
 
 







Advertisement








Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times











                    © 2016

 The New York Times Company




Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale




Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions


 













