



BUSINESS AND TECHNOLOGY -  To Make More Money, Cut the Noise - NYTimes.com














































 


















.NYT5Style .masthead-tools #bar1-button  {
    display: inline;
    vertical-align: top;
}
#bar1-button {
    border:none;
    position: relative;
}
.bar1_hover {
    opacity: 0;
}
.sub_small_hide {
    display: none;
}
#bar1-button > a {
    -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
    background-color: #6288A5;
    border: 1px solid #4D7B9F;
    border-radius: 3px;
    color: #fff !important;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 1em;
    font-weight: bold;
    font-family: nyt-franklin,nyt-franklin-1,'Helvetica Neue',Arial,sans-serif;
    padding: 7px 10px 6px;
    text-transform: uppercase;
    text-decoration: none;
}
#bar1-button > a:hover {
    background-color: #326891;
    border: 1px solid #265E8B;
    text-decoration: none;
}

/* EXCLUDING NYT4 INTERACTIVES */
#interactiveABC #bar1-button {
   display: none;
}


Subscribe Now


Subscribe

campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global


NYTD.loadEditionToggle();

window.setTimeout(function() {
  var login = document.getElementById('memberToolsLogin');
  if (login) {
    login.href += "?URI=" + window.location.href;
  }
}, 0)







Search All NYTimes.com










Business Day





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos



















International
DealBook
Markets
Economy
Energy
Media
Technology
Personal Tech
Entrepreneurship
Your Money



        NYTD.require(NYTD.Hosts.jsHost + "/js/section/business/subnavigation.js");
    







BUSINESS AND TECHNOLOGY
BUSINESS AND TECHNOLOGY; To Make More Money, Cut the Noise


By JONATHAN BURTON


Published: September 26, 2001









                    THE technology that allows users to share music files over the Internet is also proving useful in swapping shares of stock.        

                    The point here, though, is not to crank up the volume but to keep stock-trading quiet. Another new technology helps portfolio managers clear research reports off their desks.        

                    While the two matters seem unrelated, they fulfill a desire among institutional investors for privacy, when the pressure to provide investors with full disclosure and equal access has never been greater.        

                    A new peer-to-peer system helps traders move huge blocks of stocks without tipping their hand.        

                    Mutual funds and other institutional investors buy and sell hundreds of thousands of shares at once, trading through traditional and alternative exchanges. Yet big orders leave a footprint, signaling that a major buyer or seller is making moves. Traders  try to mask intent by filling orders in smaller blocks over several hours or days, but even the slightest ripples create waves.        

                    ''When an institutional order hits the New York Stock Exchange, it's like dropping a rock into a pond,'' said John Wheeler, the manager of equity trading at American Century Investment Management of Kansas City, Mo., which controls the American Century family of mutual funds.        

                    Word of the transaction spreads quickly as rival players -- market makers, brokers, hedge funds and day traders -- react, often by trying to profit from the trade.        

                    Plexus Group, a Los Angeles adviser to money managers and brokerage firms that specializes in analyzing the costs of trading, estimates that market impact costs institutions -- and their shareholders -- 1 percent of the net on a large-capitalization stock trade, and up to 4.5 percent on small-cap transactions.        

                    ''Traditional institutional equity trading is an extremely expensive and inefficient process,'' Mr. Wheeler said. But while he and other big-block traders grouse about  ''leakage,'' as they call the nibbling inroads made by canny smaller traders, there have been few alternatives, until now.        

                    Peer-to-peer computing could tip the scale toward the institutional side. American Century is one of about 90 companies using a nascent alternative trading system called Liquidnet, which uses peer-to-peer technology as its backbone. Peer-to-peer technology enables file-sharing and collaboration among users by linking their computers over the Internet. It was first heavily used in the sharing of music files.        

                    Liquidnet is a private, virtual enclave for institutional trading, hidden from the eyes of smaller traders on popular exchanges like Nasdaq, the New York Stock Exchange and Instinet. Liquidnet members must manage at least $2 billion in assets, and participants agree to share their open buy and sell orders over the Internet.        

                    Typically, such dealings would be heretical, but Liquidnet promises to protect the identity of buyer and seller. In this way, each party sees the number of shares offered and the price -- nothing more. For example, if American Century wants to sell 250,000 shares of I.B.M., Liquidnet flashes the order to interested buyers. Two sides come together at a price that normally falls within the quoted bid-ask spread. Other than Liquidnet, which handles settlement and pockets a 2-cents-a-share commission, no intermediary is involved. At the same time, traders say the insulated transaction reduces the ''leakage.''        

                    The electronic trading system also became a bulwark for institutional investors struggling to find their footing in the aftermath of the World Trade Center attack, said Mr. Wheeler, who is also a member of Liquidnet's advisory board. When the stock market finally reopened, Mr. Wheeler said he appreciated having a resource like Liquidnet. ''We were much more confident that we would be able to execute our transactions knowing that we had a network of alternative trading venues,'' he said.        

                    American Century has been using Liquidnet since its start in April 2001, and Mr. Wheeler estimated that his company funneled about 500,000 shares a day through the system. That is only about 2 percent of the 25 million shares that American Century trades each day, but equals about 10 percent of Liquidnet's total daily order flow.        

                    But those orders tend to be big. The average transaction on Liquidnet involves 70,000 shares, versus about 5,000 shares on a rival electronic trading system, Posit, and around 1,100 shares on the Big Board. But can Liquidnet live up to its name and supply institutions with enough liquidity to complete their big orders?        

                    The company's founder and chief executive, Seth Merrin, conceded that his venture was nowhere near critical mass.        

                    ''We don't have enough members live yet to provide them with liquidity on a majority of their orders,'' said Mr. Merrin, who also created the market's first electronic order management system. Significant liquidity, he said, will come when at least 75 companies are linked; recently 55 of 92 members had been connected.        

                    American Century's interest in Liquidnet dovetails with its equity stake in WorldStreet, a Boston-based peer-to-peer start-up that hopes to help portfolio managers control the deluge of information they receive from analysts and sales agents. David Rose, a manager of the American Century Vista fund, said he must wade through more than 200 electronic messages daily.        

                    ''If I go to a meeting and hand out my business card,'' Mr. Rose said, ''that's an invitation for them to send me e-mails for the rest of their corporate lives.''        

                    Most of these unwanted missives go unread. WorldStreet helps investment managers choose only the research they want from preselected firms and analysts. If this seems like just a new and improved filter, Mr. Rose said, that is exactly the point.        

                    ''WorldStreet is an efficiency tool,'' Mr. Rose said. ''I control who sends me content. I can also control who I want to stop sending me information.''        

                    BY using WorldStreet's software, brokerage firms can gather research, financial data, spreadsheets and other information about a possible investment, then package and transmit the material to clients.        

                    ''We're all really guilty of publishing too much,'' said Thomas Trivella, the director of electronic research distribution for Credit Suisse First Boston, one of WorldStreet's research providers. Through WorldStreet, he said, ''we can push our information directly to our best clients and cut through the clutter.''        

                    Brokerage firms do not know which customers are receiving the electronic mailings, only that the research is finding an audience. If Mr. Rose wants reports only on Intel from Credit Suisse's semiconductor analyst, for instance, WorldStreet sends him only those items.        

                    But WorldStreet, like Liquidnet, faces competition for similar products, including  Groove Networks, Engenia and Ikimbo. And it, too, faces the chicken-and-egg dilemma: to become a viable channel for Wall Street research, brokerage firms need assurance that institutions want the service. Yet to attract institutions, WorldStreet must show that brokerage firms support it.        

                    Mr. Rose said that while he was optimistic about WorldStreet, he had not seen much customized research so far. ''It's basically right now,'' he said, ''like a freeway without any cars.''        

                    Drawing (Michael Meister)          








 














 



















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback







var dcsvid = "";
var regstatus = "non-registered";





campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Inv1
