
  




An Espresso Maker That Hums Along With Cécile McLorin Salvant - The New York Times














































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Food|An Espresso Maker That Hums Along With Cécile McLorin Salvant



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1R0fYRQ




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Food 
An Espresso Maker That Hums Along With Cécile McLorin Salvant



Close at Hand 
By                     
LIGAYA MISHAN

MARCH 7, 2016



Inside










Photo






The Grammy Award winner Cécile McLorin Salvant in her Harlem apartment.

Credit
            Alex Welsh for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



To some, the Moka pot is a fetish and design icon as likely to be found at a museum (one is in the Museum of Modern Art’s permanent collection) as in a young jazz singer’s galley kitchen in Harlem.Invented in Italy during the Great Depression, the stovetop coffee maker liberated espresso from the caffè bar and made it something that Italians could brew easily and affordably at home. When Renato Bialetti, who sold millions of the little machines (his father, Alfonso, was the first to manufacture them), died last month, his ashes were interred in a giant Moka pot.To Cécile McLorin Salvant, who won this year’s Grammy Award for jazz vocal album (“For One to Love”), the coffee maker is at once more mundane and magical: a quick means to what she calls “a wonderful drug,” and a reminder of her childhood home in Miami, where she grew up with the scent of coffee always at the ready, bubbling in any one of her parents’ three battered and beloved Moka pots. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Renato Bialetti, the Mr. Coffee of Italy, Dies at 93FEB. 20, 2016







Note that her pot is not the Art Deco original from Bialetti, with gleaming octagonal slopes of aluminum. (When Bialetti introduced the Moka Express, the fascist leader Benito Mussolini had imposed an embargo on stainless steel in favor of Italian bauxite ore.) Hers comes from Ikea and is stainless steel, which some coffee obsessives prefer, to prevent a metallic aftertaste.
Photo






Ms. Salvant, 26.

Credit
            Alex Welsh for The New York Times        







Close at Hand
Celebrating the objects, practical or precious, that cooks find indispensable.







                                Nicole Aragi’s Family History in a Jar            
FEB 29








                                A Tabletop Sanctuary            
FEB 1








                                Anne Serrano-McClain’s Trays Serve Up History            
JAN 25








                                In Six Compartments, All the Flavors of Home            
JAN 19








                                Danielle Gould’s Repurposed Chopping Block            
JAN 11






See More »



But Ms. Salvant, 26, isn’t so fussy. The pot was a gift from her mother, and it does the job. Water in the bottom chamber is heated slowly until steam pressure forces it through loose grounds in the basket above; coffee collects at the top.

“It kind of settles me,” Ms. Salvant said. She pours the coffee into a thermos and nurses it while she works at the piano.

She didn’t start singing jazz until she was 18, while studying political science in Aix-en-Provence, France, after years of classical voice lessons. (She still fondly recalls Bach’s “Coffee Cantata,” in which a worried father threatens to block his daughter’s marriage unless she stops drinking coffee.)
Photo






Ms. Salvant’s Moka pot, a stovetop coffee maker, is a reminder of her childhood home in Miami.

Credit
            Alex Welsh for The New York Times        


Three years later, she won the prestigious Thelonious Monk competition, which honors up-and-coming jazz artists. Nate Chinen, writing in The Times, has called her “the finest jazz singer to emerge in the last decade.”

In France, she started cooking, too, drawing on recipes from her mother, who is of French-Guadeloupean descent and spent her youth in Tunisia, Senegal, Bolivia and Cuba. “Mafé, yassa, ragoût de porc, Guadeloupe poisson, chicken with 40 cloves of garlic, boeuf bourgignon,” Ms. Salvant recited, almost in incantation.

She owes her birth in part to her mother’s cooking skills. Her father, a doctor from Haiti, tasted a batch of nem (Senegalese spring rolls) that her mother had made for a friend. “I want to meet her,” he said.In season, her parents ship her mangoes from their backyard in Miami, and she hasn’t had the heart to buy the fruit in New York. Instead, she’s been eking out a jar of mango compote that her mother made last summer, scooping spoonfuls between sips of coffee.Recently, her mother started experimenting with mango tarte Tatin. “She posts it online, with pictures,” Ms. Salvant said, half-offended, half-yearning. “That’s just rude.”


 Correction: March 8, 2016  
    	Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated Alfonso Bialetti’s role in the development of the Moka pot. Mr. Bialetti was the first to manufacture it; he did not invent it.    



Close at Hand celebrates the objects, practical or precious, that cooks find indispensable.
A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2016, on page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Riffing on the Standard Coffee Pot.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















