
  




Exploitation of Endangered Species Feared as China Revisits Wildlife Law - The New York Times













































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|Exploitation of Endangered Species Feared as China Revisits Wildlife Law



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Klfdpz




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Asia Pacific 
Exploitation of Endangered Species Feared as China Revisits Wildlife Law



Sinosphere 
By                     
SHAOJIE HUANG

FEB. 1, 2016



Inside










Photo






The Siberian Tiger Park in Harbin, China. Conservationists warn that proposed changes to the Wildlife Protection Law could make it easier to breed endangered species for commercial purposes.

Credit
            Sheng Li/Reuters        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



BEIJING — A proposed revision to China’s Wildlife Protection Law is being criticized by conservationists who fear it could legitimize the commercial exploitation of endangered species, such as tigers, bears and pangolins.







“This is not a step forward,” said Toby Zhang, director of Ta Foundation, an animal protection organization based in Beijing. “This is a surrender to the wrong and the benighted.”The draft legislation would be the first major revision of the 1989 law, which animal welfare advocates had long faulted as providing inadequate safeguards for wildlife, and some proposed changes have won their praise. For example, the bill opens with a mention of its intent to protect not just animals but also their habitats. And it states for the first time that the state has a responsibility to help maintain biodiversity. The draft legislation was made public on Jan. 1 and open for comment until last Friday. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









China Weighs Ban on Manta Ray Gills, Sold in Traditional Market as Modern Panacea 










Customers Embrace Shark Fin Substitutes 






Sinosphere Blog: Footage of Live Whale Shark Being Sawed Prompts Outcry in China 










Sinosphere Blog: After Dog Rescues, Chinese Activists Left With a Daunting Task 










Chinese Bear Bile Farming Draws Charges of Cruelty 






But where the existing law is vague about the legality of trading and breeding endangered species for food and medicine — a situation critics said opened too many loopholes for animal exploitation and abuse — the proposed revisions make explicit that endangered species are “natural resources” that can be legally bred in captivity for commercial purposes. And it shifts the power for licensing these activities from the central government to provincial ones, which critics say are more likely to bend to local economic interests.
Photo






A worker extracting bile from a caged bear at a farm of the Guizhentang pharmaceutical company, which makes tonics from bear bile, in the southeastern province of Fujian.

Credit
            Mu Chen/European Pressphoto Agency        


Some of the proposed changes could overturn existing animal protections, conservationists say. Since 2010, zoos in all Chinese cities have been banned from staging animal performances. And while there are more bears being held captive for their bile, used in traditional medical potions, than in years past, public resistance has become more vocal. Trade in tiger bone and rhino horn was banned in 1993.







Sinosphere
Insight, analysis and conversation about Chinese culture, media and politics.







                                China Is Said to Force Closing of Women’s Legal Aid Center            








                                Imagining Hong Kong’s Future, Under China’s Tightening Grasp            








                                Sellers of Donkey Gelatin, a Chinese Cure in Crisis, Seek a State Remedy            








                                In Book, Xi Jinping Taints Ousted Rivals With Talk of Plots            








                                Studies Point to Inequalities That Could Strain Chinese Society            






See More »



The new law, if passed, could jeopardize these gains, conservationists and some legal experts say.One draft clause could legalize animal performances if a provincial-level government grants a permit. Another clause in the bill says the use of wild animals as medicine, supplements or food must be “in conformity with the country’s related laws and regulations on Chinese traditional medicine, supplements and food,” without specifying which related laws, whether those dealing with consumer safety or the sources of ingredients.

“A major step backward and a disaster for conservation,” said An Xiang, the director of Dexiang Law Firm in Beijing, who has campaigned for animal welfare legislation. He said he viewed the medicine and food clause as a green light for activities like bile bear farming and eating tigers and pangolins.“If the current law is vague and stops shy of allowing the commercial use of animals,” Mr. An said, “the new law is brazenly detailed about it, telling you how these animals may be used and where to go to get a permit.”

Mr. Zhang, who said his Ta Foundation was involved in drafting the bill, agreed that commercial interests overtook the final proposal. He said that the foundation had collaborated with the State Council’s Development Research Center, a government think tank, to organize seminars in which lawmakers met with environmentalists, legal law professionals, government officials and business representatives.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Five such meetings were held last year, Mr. Zhang said. “Every time we were presented a draft containing inputs from the previous discussion. The officials were open-minded, and everybody got a fair hearing,” he said. “But then at the last meeting in September, we saw the reverse. The views of businesses were strengthened, while those of the conservationists were reduced.”

The version posted on Jan. 1 largely reflects the situation in September, he said.Some, while critical of the new law, take a less dire view. Zhou Ke, a law professor at Renmin University in Beijing who provided the government with legal opinions during the drafting of the bill, said that the clause addressing animal parts used in food and medicine would not affect China’s commitment to the protection of endangered species as required by its own regulations and international treaties like the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species. But he agreed that some of the wording in the draft “makes it sound like eating wild animals is now encouraged when it should be discouraged.”

Supporters of the bill, including government agencies that manage wildlife, have defended using wild animals as natural resources. In an interview in The Paper last month, a news site based in Shanghai, Yan Xun, a wildlife conservation official at the State Forestry Administration of China, called the approach a necessity for the economy in “some places.” He did not cite examples.“The law was not made just for animal protection groups,” Mr. Yan was quoted as saying.Shifting licensing authority from the central to provincial governments will allow regulators to focus on their main tasks, he added. “We will have more time to supervise and make rules,” he told The Paper. “In the past, we spent most of our time issuing licenses.”


Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day with the Today’s Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















