
  




Light Government Touch Lets China’s Hui Practice Islam in the Open - The New York Times








































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|Light Government Touch Lets China’s Hui Practice Islam in the Open



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/202HNho




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Asia Pacific |                        Memo From China                                    
Light Government Touch Lets China’s Hui Practice Islam in the Open

By ANDREW JACOBSFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Continue reading the main story


Slide Show





Slide Show|8 Photos
Strongholds for China’s Hui Muslims




Strongholds for China’s Hui Muslims

CreditAdam Dean for The New York Times        








Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



WUZHONG, China — As the call to prayer echoed off the high walls of the madrasa and into the surrounding village, dozens of boys, dressed in matching violet caps, poured out of their dorm rooms and headed to the mosque.







That afternoon prayer ritual, little changed since Middle Eastern traders traversing the Silk Road first arrived in western China more than 1,000 years ago, was at once quotidian and remarkable.That is because in many parts of the officially atheist country, religious restrictions make it a crime to operate Islamic schools and bar people under 18 from entering mosques.Asked about the Chinese government’s light touch here, Liu Jun, 37, the chief imam at the Banqiao Daotang Islamic School, offered a knowing smile. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Xinjiang Seethes Under Chinese Crackdown JAN. 2, 2016











Sinosphere: ISIS Extends Recruitment Efforts to China With New ChantDEC. 8, 2015







China Acknowledges Killing 28 People; Accuses Them of Role in Mine AttackNOV. 20, 2015









video



On the Silk Road, Oil and Tensions FlowDEC. 20, 2014







Female Factor: A Model of Inclusion for Muslim WomenOCT. 9, 2012











A Spectator’s Role for China’s Muslims (2006) 






“Muslims from other parts of China who come here, especially from Xinjiang, can’t believe how free we are, and they don’t want to leave,” he said, referring to the far-west borderlands that are home to China’s beleaguered Uighur ethnic minority. “Life for the Hui is very good.”
Continue reading the main story
Video

Vibrant Culture of China’s Hui Muslims


Hui Muslims form a 1,200-year-old community in northern China and enjoy greater religious freedom than the Uighurs of Xinjiang.

                    By ANDREW JACOBS on                                                                Publish Date February 1, 2016.
                                    

                                            Photo by Adam Dean for The New York Times.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed










With an estimated Muslim population of 23 million, China has more followers of Islam than many Arab countries. Roughly half of them live in Xinjiang, an oil-rich expanse of Central Asia where a cycle of violence and government repression has alarmed human rights advocates and unnerved Beijing over worries about the spread of Islamic extremism.But here in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, a relatively recent administrative construct that is the official heartland of China’s Hui Muslim community, that kind of strife is almost nonexistent, as are the limitations on religion that critics say are fueling Uighur discontent.Throughout Ningxia and the adjacent Gansu Province, new filigreed mosques soar over even the smallest villages, adolescent boys and girls spend their days studying the Quran at religious schools, and muezzin summon the faithful via loudspeakers — a marked contrast to mosques in Xinjiang, where the local authorities often forbid amplified calls to prayer.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
In Hui strongholds like Linxia, a city in Gansu known as China’s “Little Mecca,” there are mosques on every other block and women can sometimes be seen with veils, a sartorial choice that can lead to detention in Xinjiang.“It’s easy to live an intensely Muslim life here,” said Ma Habibu, 67, a retired truck driver, whose surname, Ma, with its phonetic resemblance to the name Mohammed, is common among the Hui. “Even government officials here are very devout and study the Quran every day.”Descendants of Persian and Arab traders who settled along the Silk Road and took Chinese wives, the nation’s 10 million Hui are a minority primarily defined by their faith and, in some cases, solely their culinary habits. Compared with the Uighurs, they have also demonstrated a remarkable ability to coexist with the Communist Party, an organization hard-wired to distrust those whose first loyalty belongs to a higher power.
Photo






Hui students before evening prayers at the Banqiao Daotang Islamic School in Wuzhong, China, in October.

Credit
            Adam Dean for The New York Times        


Unlike the Uighurs, who speak a Turkic dialect and whose Eurasian features set them apart from the country’s Han Chinese majority, the Hui speak Chinese and are often indistinguishable from their non-Muslim neighbors. In much of China, the white caps worn by men and the head scarves worn by women are all that give them away. In many places, the Hui have so thoroughly assimilated that their only connection to Islam is a vestigial aversion to pork.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Most subscribe to a moderate brand of Islam, though tradition frowns upon intermarriage — Hui men who break convention by marrying outside the faith often demand that their wives convert to Islam.“The Hui are a great example of a group of very diverse people who have somehow managed, despite enormous amounts of oppression, to survive — and to do so rather vibrantly,” said Dru C. Gladney, a professor of anthropology at Pomona College who studies the Hui. “They have had 1,200 years to figure out how to live with the Han, and they are careful about not crossing political lines.”Their loyalty to the Communist Party has been well rewarded. In places like Linxia, people can easily obtain passports and about half of the senior officials are ethnic Hui, according to local residents. In Xinjiang, by contrast, most important government posts go to the Han, and young Uighurs find it hard to get passports to travel abroad. Government workers in Xinjiang who go to mosques or fast during the holy month of Ramadan often find themselves unemployed.But even in Ningxia and Gansu, official tolerance has its limits. During a recent five-day journey through Hui communities that fleck the arid foothills of the Tibetan plateau, several imams said proselytizing to non-Muslims was forbidden, as was contact with Islamic organizations outside China. Accepting overseas donations for the construction of a mosque was also sure to invite trouble from the authorities.“I don’t think the government needs to worry about Muslims or Hui turning into terrorists, but officials worry that foreigners with ulterior motives might incite trouble by donating money to Chinese Muslims,” said Ding Mingjun, a professor of Hui Muslim studies at Beifang University of Nationalities.
Photo






A Hui shepherd driving sheep back to his home near Dayuanding village in Linxia County.

Credit
            Adam Dean for The New York Times        


Religious leaders said that the government had become especially vigilant about tamping down competition and potential strife among different Islamic factions. Several imams said party officials were most concerned about Salafis, an ultraconservative Sunni sect whose strict interpretation of religious texts has been associated with extremism.“The Salafi influence has been spreading fast in China, and this is worrying both us and the government because they think their religion is the correct one,” said Wang Jingcheng, a teacher at the Great Gongbei, a 300-year-old Sufi shrine in Linxia.The Hui have not always coexisted so well with authority or other ethnic groups. In the 19th century, Muslim-led rebellions were brutally suppressed, killing hundreds of thousands. More recently, during the Cultural Revolution from 1966 to 1976, the Red Guards tortured and jailed imams, defaced mosques and shuttered religious academies.In recent years, there have been sporadic clashes between Hui and Han: In 2004, scores were reportedly killed during ethnic bloodletting in Henan Province, and in 2012, dozens of people were injured by the police during protests over the demolition of a mosque in Ningxia that the government had declared illegal.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
In 2008, Tibetan rioters, angered by the Hui’s dominance of local economic life, attacked Muslim restaurants and stormed a mosque in Lhasa, the regional capital.Those tribulations, reinforced by the occasional expression of disdain from non-Islamic neighbors, have infused many Hui with a sense of determination that borders on exceptionalism.
Photo






Hui women working at embroidery machines at the Wan Ti Ni Ethnic Clothing Company factory, which specializes in traditional Hui and Islamic apparel, in Wuzhong, China.

Credit
            Adam Dean for The New York Times        


In interviews, many Hui said their religion-inspired devotion to hygiene and personal integrity — and an avoidance of cigarettes, alcohol and gambling — set them apart from their Han brethren.“The Hui used to live in separate neighborhoods, but these days, non-Muslims are moving to Muslim quarters because they are drawn to our clean food and our system of ethics,” said Ma Youming, 35, the production manager of a hat factory in Wuzhong that exports religious headwear to Indonesia, Malaysia and other Muslim countries.The party is increasingly seeking to leverage this good will by positioning the Hui as mercantile emissaries to the Muslim world, a role that has been bolstered by President Xi Jinping’s national initiative for a new Silk Road, known as One Belt, One Road, which seeks to revive China’s ancient trade routes with Asia, Europe and the Middle East.In places like Wuzhong and Linxia, officials have created special “Muslim products” industrial parks that offer inexpensive land and low taxes. Mr. Ma’s company, Yijia Ethnic Clothing, is among those that have benefited from favorable government policies.Standing amid the rat-a-tat of computer-driven embroidery machines, Mr. Ma said Yijia Ethnic Clothing’s three factories now make 50 million hats a year and provide more than two-thirds of the world’s low-priced Islamic headwear.That success is fueling a new venture for the company: a Muslim-themed real estate venture in Linxia that will include 6,000 apartments, two mosques, museums and a Halal food exhibition center spread across 190 acres.During a recent visit to the company’s offices, Ma Chunbo, a senior executive, said that the project sought to capitalize on the growing wealth of Hui entrepreneurs but that he also hoped to attract non-Muslims.“We want to show the world that Islam is a tolerant, peace-loving religion, not the religion of burqas and bomb-throwing that people see on the news,” he said.He stood in front of a mock-up of the project, which includes scaled-down replicas of the world’s most iconic mosques. “We also want to show that in Linxia, we fully enjoy the lenient ethnic policies of the government,” he said.


Follow Andrew Jacobs on Twitter @AndrewJacobsNYT.Adam Wu contributed research.
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day with the Today’s Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















