
  




Chinese Publication, Censored by Government, Exposes Article’s Removal - The New York Times
















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|Chinese Publication, Censored by Government, Exposes Article’s Removal



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Ua15lb




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Asia Pacific 
Chinese Publication, Censored by Government, Exposes Article’s Removal



Sinosphere 
By                     
 MICHAEL FORSYTHE
 
MARCH 8, 2016



Inside










Photo






Hu Shuli, editor in chief of the Chinese news organization Caixin Media.

Credit
            Mike Clarke/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



A news organization led by one of China’s most prominent journalists is sounding the alarm about censorship and the growing restrictions on free speech, citing a source very familiar with the situation: itself.On Tuesday, the influential and respected news organization Caixin Media posted an article on its English-language website reporting that the country’s Internet regulator, the Cyberspace Administration of China, which it called “a government censorship organ,” had deleted a March 3 article on Caixin’s Chinese-language website because it contained “illegal content.” 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









As Economy Slows, Experts Call on China to Drop Growth TargetMARCH 4, 2016











Sinosphere: As China’s ‘2 Sessions’ Convene in Beijing, Delegates Are WaryMARCH 4, 2016











Sinosphere: Peering Through the Haze of China’s Economic DataFEB. 26, 2016











As China’s Economic Picture Turns Uglier, Beijing Applies AirbrushFEB. 25, 2016







The article, which Caixin said was removed on Saturday, quoted Jiang Hong, a member of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, an advisory body, who said that advisers should be free to give their opinions to the Communist Party’s leaders, who have gathered this month for the annual session of the National People’s Congress, the country’s legislature. Mr. Jiang was quoted as saying that “certain events” had cast a shadow over the meetings, leaving attendees “a bit dazed” and not wanting “to talk too much.” The New York Times cited that Caixin article in a report on Friday.
Photo






A screenshot of an article that was removed from Caixin’s English-language website.










Sinosphere
Insight, analysis and conversation about Chinese culture, media and politics.







                                Year After Detentions, Chinese Feminists Mark Setbacks and Progress            
MAR 7








                                Death of Chinese Woman Trapped in Elevator for Month Stokes Uproar            
MAR 7








                                Q. and A.: How China’s National People’s Congress Works            
MAR 4








                                As China’s ‘2 Sessions’ Convene in Beijing, Delegates Are Wary            
MAR 4








                                Advisory Body’s Delegates Offer Glimpse Into China’s Worries            
MAR 3






See More »



For a Chinese news organization to publicize the government’s censorship of the news media is highly unusual, and it comes less than three weeks after President Xi Jinping made a high-profile visit to some leading state-controlled news organizations, including China Central Television and the news agency Xinhua, telling them that they exist as propaganda tools for the Communist Party. While Caixin has always had more leeway than those organizations, it must still obey increasingly strict rules on what news organizations can publish.

“The English-language article from Caixin is a highly unusual instance of a Chinese publication publicly exposing an act of censorship,” said David Bandurski, an editor at the China Media Project at the University of Hong Kong. “I think we can also guess that serious turf wars are happening within the leadership over control of the very business of press control.”

Caixin went so far as to interview Mr. Jiang about the censorship, who said he found it “terrible and bewildering,” and could not fathom what laws and regulations he had violated that warranted the article’s removal.Caixin’s editor in chief is Hu Shuli, arguably China’s most highly regarded journalist, who is known to have a keen sense of how far she can push the envelope in publishing articles that expose corruption or criticize government policies. In 2005, when she oversaw another pioneering publication, she told The Times: “We go up to the line — and we might even push it. But we never cross it.”

But lately, the Communist Party has shown no hesitation about striking out at anyone, no matter how famous, who questions its control of the news media. Last month, one of China’s leading online commentators had his microblog deleted after he criticized Mr. Xi’s call for the news media to serve the party. The commentator, Ren Zhiqiang, a real estate executive, had nearly 38 million followers on Sina Weibo, China’s equivalent to Twitter.

Ms. Hu did not reply to an emailed request for comment. When called on her cellphone, her secretary said Ms. Hu was unable to talk because she was in a meeting.On Tuesday, online readers, even outside China’s so-called Great Firewall, saw this note in Chinese when trying to reach the March 3 article, stating that the page was unavailable and redirecting readers to Caixin’s home page.By Tuesday afternoon in Beijing, the same note appeared when trying to open the English-language article.


Follow Michael Forsythe on Twitter @PekingMike.
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day with the Today’s Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















