
  




It’s Been 10 Years. Would Clarence Thomas Like to Add Anything? - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|It’s Been 10 Years. Would Clarence Thomas Like to Add Anything?



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Kl5pvI




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
It’s Been 10 Years. Would Clarence Thomas Like to Add Anything?



Sidebar 
By                     
 ADAM LIPTAK
 
FEB. 1, 2016



Inside










Photo






Justice Clarence Thomas in 2008, two years after he last asked a question during oral arguments.

Credit
            Stefan Zaklin/European Pressphoto Agency        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



WASHINGTON — When the Supreme Court returns from its winter break this month, it will hear two minor cases and reach a major anniversary. Unless something very surprising happens during the arguments that day, Justice Clarence Thomas will have gone 10 years without asking a question from the bench.







Maintaining a decade-long vow of silence takes monkish dedication and a certain stamina, and Justice Thomas has no modern competition. It has been at least 45 years since any other member of the court went even a single term without asking a question.Justice Thomas’s explanations for his disengagement from this aspect of the court’s work have varied, but he seems to have settled on one in recent years. It is simply discourteous, he says, to pepper lawyers with questions.“I think it’s unnecessary in deciding cases to ask that many questions, and I don’t think it’s helpful,” he said at Harvard Law School in 2013. “I think we should listen to lawyers who are arguing their cases, and I think we should allow the advocates to advocate.”His is an unusual conception of the role oral arguments play at the Supreme Court. The justices know the lawyers’ arguments well by the time they take the bench, having read stacks of briefs, most of them very thorough.Oral arguments are a chance for justices to probe the contentions in the briefs and for lawyers to address the issues that most trouble the justices.“If oral argument provides nothing more than a summary of the brief in monologue, it is of very little value to the court,” Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote in 1987.Justice Thomas acknowledged at least the premise of this point in his remarks at Harvard. “Most of the work is done in the briefs,” he said.But he may well be right that his colleagues go too far in the other direction, interrupting one another and spraying lawyers with questions that seldom get full and considered answers.“We look like ‘Family Feud,’” Justice Thomas told a bar group in 2000.Asked about the free-for-all state of arguments at Harvard in 2013, he said, “I don’t like it that way, but I’m nobody’s boss.”But the oral arguments are not only about eliciting information from lawyers. They are also the justices’ first opportunity to talk about the case and to try to sway one another. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    





Justice Clarence Thomas Breaks Silence in Court 










Clarence Thomas Keeps 5-Year Supreme Court Silence 






“Quite often the judges are debating among themselves and just using the lawyers as a backboard,” Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said in 2008 at Columbia Law School.Justice Thomas has withdrawn from that debate. Judging by his concurrences and dissents, often joined by no other justice, he is not much interested in compromise, persuasion or coalition building. That is, his admirers say, a sign of character and integrity.




Sidebar
Coverage and consideration of developments in the world of law.







                                Case Could Widen Free-Speech Gap Between Unions and Corporations            








                                Supreme Court, in Recusal Case, May Find Itself Looking Inward            








                                Hip-Hop Stars Support Mississippi Rapper in First Amendment Case            








                                Yale Finds Error in Legal Stylebook: Harvard Did Not Create It            








                                Roberts on Supreme Court’s Changing Face (Beards Optional)            






See More »



About eight times a year, Justice Thomas does speak from the bench, to announce his majority opinions. Other justices use those occasions to offer conversational summaries partly aimed at visiting tourists, sometimes with humorous asides that do not appear in the printed versions.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Justice Thomas does not seem to relish the task of describing what the court has just decided. In a gruff, rumbling baritone, he reads from a text that is often studded with legal jargon and citations to sub-parts of statutes and regulations.Three years ago, Justice Thomas did speak up at an argument, but it was not to ask a question. It was to crack a joke. Still, he broke his silence, and it qualified as news.But there was a problem. The reporters in the courtroom were not sure what he had said.

His comment seemed to concern the qualifications of a defense lawyer in a capital punishment case who had gone to law school at Harvard, like six members of the court. Justice Thomas went to Yale.

“Well — he did not —” Justice Thomas said, according to the initial transcript released by the court. There followed this notation: “(Laughter.)”Nine days later, the court issued a revised transcript. The new version of the remark was only a little funnier, and only if you like a good death-penalty joke. “Well, there — see, he did not provide good counsel,” Justice Thomas said.

“(Laughter.)”Justice Thomas’s last question, on Feb. 22, 2006, also came in a death penalty case. He spoke a total of 11 times earlier in that term and in the previous one. They were mostly good questions, brisk and pointed.Justice Thomas has offered shifting reasons for his general taciturnity. In his 2007 memoir, “My Grandfather’s Son,” he wrote that he had never asked questions in college or law school and that he had been intimidated by some of his fellow students.He has also said he is self-conscious about the way he speaks, partly because he had been teased about the dialect he grew up speaking in rural Georgia.It is a pity that Justice Thomas has withdrawn from an important part of the court’s work. He has a distinctive legal philosophy and a background entirely different from that of any other justice.

In 2002, the courtroom was riveted when he shared his reflections on the meaning of a Virginia law that banned cross burning, recalling “almost 100 years of lynching” in the South by the Ku Klux Klan and other groups.“This was a reign of terror, and the cross was a symbol of that reign of terror,” he said, adding, “It was intended to cause fear and to terrorize a population.”Were Justice Thomas to talk, people would listen.


Follow the New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















