
  




Classified 2002 Letter on N.S.A. Eavesdropping Is Made Public - The New York Times







































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|Classified 2002 Letter on N.S.A. Eavesdropping Is Made Public



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Uvv7QV




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
Classified 2002 Letter on N.S.A. Eavesdropping Is Made Public

By CHARLIE SAVAGE and ERIC LICHTBLAUFEB. 29, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON — The Obama administration on Monday made public a previously classified letter from 2002 about the Bush administration’s secret program that allowed the National Security Agency to eavesdrop on Americans’ international communications without court orders.The release of the 22-page letter, written by John Yoo, then a top lawyer in the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, adds to the historical record of one of the most controversial pieces of the Bush administration’s response to the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001: The surveillance and bulk data collection program known by the code name Stellarwind.The letter explained to Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, who at that time was the new chief judge of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, why the Justice Department considered the program lawful even though, as Mr. Yoo acknowledged, it clashed with wiretapping laws laid out in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.The letter appeared to track a memorandum Mr. Yoo had written in Nov. 2, 2001, soon after President George W. Bush directed the N.S.A. to begin the program. A previously released inspector general report about the program included a partially redacted summary of that memo.Among other things, Mr. Yoo claimed in the letter that the president’s constitutional authority as commander-in-chief overruled statutory prohibitions and that under the circumstances the program complied with the Fourth Amendment, which bars unreasonable searches and usually requires warrants.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

In the letter, Mr. Yoo wrote that, “We face a situation here where the government’s interest on one side — that of protecting the Nation from direct attack – is the highest known to the Constitution. On the other side of the scale, the intrusion into individual privacy interests is greatly reduced due to the international nature of the communications.”In 2004, after Mr. Yoo had returned to teaching, a new leader of the Office of Legal Counsel, Jack Goldsmith, rejected parts of Mr. Yoo’s legal analysis, leading to a now-famous confrontation in March of that year in the hospital room of then-Attorney General John Ashcroft and a threat by top Justice Department officials to resign.To avert that threat, Mr. Bush then accepted some new limits on the program, which The New York Times partially disclosed 21 months later. The legal basis for the program also evolved. The spy court secretly blessed its bulk data collection components in 2004 and 2006, and Congress authorized warrantless wiretapping in a 2008 law, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Amendments Act.

A version of this article appears in print on March 1, 2016, on page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: National Briefing | Washington; 2002 Letter on Eavesdropping Is Made Public.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










Obama Administration Set to Expand Sharing of Data That N.S.A. Intercepts
FEB. 25, 2016













N.S.A. Gets Less Web Data Than Believed, Report Suggests
FEB. 16, 2016








TIMES TOPIC 

National Security Agency
























Related Coverage







Obama Administration Set to Expand Sharing of Data That N.S.A. Intercepts
FEB. 25, 2016













N.S.A. Gets Less Web Data Than Believed, Report Suggests
FEB. 16, 2016












TIMES TOPIC 

National Security Agency









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















