
  




Closing Arguments Given in Key Voter Rights Trial - The New York Times


































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Closing Arguments Given in Key Voter Rights Trial



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Kmzxae




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Closing Arguments Given in Key Voter Rights Trial

By KEN OTTERBOURGFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






A sign in Wilmington, N.C., on Oct. 23, 2014, reminded voters of identification card requirements that would take effect in the state in 2016.

Credit
            Alan Cradick/The Star-News, via Associated Press        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. —  In the final session of a trial that could yield a crucial decision about a policy that has been disputed for years, a federal judge heard closing arguments on Monday about North Carolina’s voter identification law.







The arguments capped a six-day bench trial, before Judge Thomas D. Schroeder of Federal District Court, that included emotional testimony about voting rights and technical analyses of the law’s impact. The outcome will be seen as an important measure of what voting-related laws federal courts might allow states to pursue and enforce. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Arguments Over North Carolina Voter ID Law Begin in Federal CourtJAN. 25, 2016











Voting Rights Legacy of the ’60s Heads to Court as North Carolina Law Is TestedJULY 11, 2015







The North Carolina chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. and other plaintiffs argued Monday, as they have for months, that the Republican-controlled General Assembly drafted the voter identification law in 2013 as a surreptitious way to curb the influence of black and Hispanic voters. The N.A.A.C.P. has argued that those voters are less likely to have one of the six accepted forms of identification required and often face more hardship in obtaining them.“They knew that all these provisions, taken individually and together, have racially discriminatory intent,” said Catherine Meza, a lawyer for the United States Justice Department, which joined the N.A.A.C.P. in the litigation.The state has insisted that the voter identification standard was approved solely to reduce the risk of election fraud, and it has argued that the measure’s critics could merely speculate about its harms. Any difficulty in obtaining identification, which can include a driver’s license or a passport, is reasonable and falls equally across races, state officials said.“It’s not a burden; it’s a minor inconvenience,” a lawyer for the state, Thomas A. Farr, said on a day when Judge Schroeder frequently interrupted for questions. “If you want to vote, you should be able to navigate that burden.”The fate of the law, before inevitable appeals, is in the hands of Judge Schroeder, an appointee of President George W. Bush. Judge Schroeder is also considering a challenge to other changes that Republicans have made to elections laws, including the elimination of same-day registration and a significant reduction in early voting days.The General Assembly first approved those modifications in 2013, after the United States Supreme Court struck down a crucial part of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, freeing certain jurisdictions, including a handful of Southern states and 40 North Carolina counties, to change their election laws without advance federal approval. State lawmakers further changed the voter identification law in 2015. With that amendment, state officials decided that residents who could not obtain identification could submit “reasonable impediment declarations” and vote with provisional ballots.The amendment failed to satisfy the plaintiffs, who also said Monday that the burden of issuing acceptable identifications had largely fallen to the Division of Motor Vehicles, which they described as a bureaucratic cog with a spotty service record. Lawmakers “knowingly put this basic and fundamental right of voters in the hands of an agency that is historically unable to serve its customers,” said Penda D. Hair, a lawyer for Advancement Project, which represents some of the challengers.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Many legal experts expect Judge Schroeder to uphold the voter identification law, particularly because of last year’s amendment that allowed for the impediment declarations.It is not clear when Judge Schroeder will reach his decision and whether it might precede this state’s presidential primaries, which will be March 15, or the general election in November, when a competitive race for North Carolina’s 15 electoral votes is expected. In January, he refused the N.A.A.C.P.’s request to block the voter identification law temporarily and said the group had “failed to clearly demonstrate that they are likely to succeed on the merits.”Much of the evidence that Judge Schroeder will consider is included in the court record, which runs thousands of pages, and he heard less than 40 hours of testimony in the trial. Last summer, at a separate trial about the other challenged provisions, more than 100 witnesses appeared over about three weeks. The judge has not yet issued a ruling from that trial.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















