
  




One Cocktail, Two Spirits: Bartenders Go for a Blend - The New York Times





































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Food|One Cocktail, Two Spirits: Bartenders Go for a Blend



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1XOYyxd




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Food 
One Cocktail, Two Spirits: Bartenders Go for a Blend

By ROBERT SIMONSONFEB. 25, 2016


Inside










Photo






Aaron Post, the owner of Valkyrie in Tulsa, Okla., blends Elijah Craig bourbon and Rittenhouse straight rye in the bar’s old-fashioned.

Credit
            Shane Brown for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



When you’re ordering an old-fashioned, the first and main question facing you is this: bourbon or rye? At Valkyrie, a bar in Tulsa, Okla., you don’t have to make that decision. You get both.







The house old-fashioned has two whiskeys: an ounce of Elijah Craig bourbon and an ounce of Rittenhouse straight rye.For Aaron Post, the owner of Valkyrie, one whiskey simply wouldn’t do for his bar’s version of such a classic drink. “My intention was to give more depth of flavor to an old-fashioned while maintaining the integrity of the drink and its ingredients,” he said.In recent decades, with the growing availability of single-source and small-batch spirits, American drinkers have been trained to believe in the virtues of unblended liquors, savored for their purity — even in cocktails, where bar customers often ask for a particular brand to anchor that martini or manhattan.

Continue reading the main story


                Recipes from  Cooking 









Valkyrie House Old-Fashioned

                By robert simonson







 Download the new Cooking iPad app 






 See more recipes 



But Valkyrie is just one of many cocktail bars where you can now order what sounds like a simple, straightforward classic and get a not-so-simple mixture of liquors.
Photo






Valkyrie’s house old-fashioned.

Credit
            Shane Brown for The New York Times        


From the Long Island Bar in Brooklyn to the Esquire Tavern in San Antonio, bartenders are combining brands taken from the same spirit category, searching for a signature blend that answers their particular demands of what a whiskey, rum, vermouth or gin should be when applied to a cocktail.One of the longest practitioners of this technique is the Teardrop Cocktail Lounge in Portland, Ore., which has been pouring its own in-house amalgams of various alcohols almost since it opened in 2007. Its house whiskey is a combination of Elijah Craig, Rittenhouse, Buffalo Trace and Four Roses bourbons. It is used in old-fashioneds, whiskey sours and other whiskey cocktails.

“It would seem pretentious to say we’re making a better whiskey,” said the owner, Daniel Shoemaker. “We’re making a catchall whiskey. Our goal was to make something as close to universal, with universal applications.” (If people order a manhattan, they’ll get a vermouth composed of Cinzano Rosso and Punt e Mes.)For her gimlet at the Vine, a bar in Chelsea, Katie Stipe uses both Plymouth Gin from England and Perry’s Tot, an overproof “navy strength” gin made in Brooklyn. The compounding got her “the best of Plymouth, that kind of silky roundness and balance, and the robust, spicy, juniper-forward flavor of Perry’s.”
Continue reading the main story




        Follow NYT Food's board Cocktails on Pinterest. 





The Esquire Tavern recently started using two house rum blends. No. 1 contained Plantation Pineapple Rum Stiggins’ Fancy, Smith & Cross and Hamilton Overproof 151. No. 2 is made of Cana Brava, Hamilton Jamaican Pot Still Black Rum and Hamilton Overproof 151.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
“Rum blend No. 2 is a great style to get into some tiki drinks,” said Houston Eaves, the beverage director, who developed the blends with Myles Worrell, the Esquire’s bar manager. “No. 1 has a certain richness that works well with certain stirred cocktails.”

Some people have mixed feelings about the mixing. Lynn House, a bartender, now works as the national brand educator for Heaven Hill, which makes Elijah Craig bourbon and Rittenhouse rye.

“I think any brand takes pride in what their brand is,” she said. “A lot of work has gone into that flavor profile. Obviously, from a brand perspective, you’re happy when they’re using your brand. But when they blend it, it becomes their brand, rather then your brand.”The big spirit labels can perhaps take some solace, then, that blending doesn’t always pan out. At Valkyrie, Mr. Post didn’t have the same kind of luck finding the ultimate mixture for martinis that he did with old-fashioneds. “I’ve wasted a lot of gin trying to find a combo that heightens any classic,” he said.Recipe: Valkyrie House Old-Fashioned





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















