
  




House Passes Cybersecurity Bill After Companies Fall Victim to Data Breaches - The New York Times































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|House Passes Cybersecurity Bill After Companies Fall Victim to Data Breaches



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1JsSzGl




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
House Passes Cybersecurity Bill After Companies Fall Victim to Data Breaches

By JENNIFER STEINHAUERAPRIL 22, 2015



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON —  Responding to a series of computer security breaches in government and the private sector, the House passed an expansive measure Wednesday that would push companies to share access to their computer networks and records with federal investigators.The bill, which came after years of false starts and bitter disappointment for the Obama administration, is similar to a measure approved by the Senate Intelligence Committee and headed for that chamber’s floor this spring. The House measure, already largely embraced by the White House, passed, 307 to 116.Should the House and Senate come together on final legislation, it would be the federal government’s most aggressive response yet to a spate of computer attacks that helped sink a major motion picture release by Sony Pictures Entertainment, exposed the credit card numbers of tens of thousands of customers of Target stores and compromised the personal records of millions of people who did business with the health insurer Anthem.“The gravity of the emergency we have in cyberspace is setting in with lawmakers,” said Paul Kurtz, who worked on the issue under in the Clinton, Bush and Obama administrations, and is chief executive of TruStar, which aids companies in information sharing. “They now understand that companies can no longer fight the bad guys individually.”The House bill would provide legal liability protections for companies that share cyberthreat information with each other or with the government. But negotiators also added what they see as critical privacy protections.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

If a company shares information with the government, it would receive liability protection only if its data undergoes two rounds of washing out personal information — once by the company before it gives the data to the government and another round by the government agency that receives the data, which many experts believe is critical in getting companies to comply.“Liability protection is something needed to help companies share,” said Sarah Beth Groshart, director of government affairs at the Information Technology Industry Council. “And only Congress can provide that.”Policing the nation’s computer networks has been complicated over the last decade by concerns from Republicans, who expressed concern for burdens placed on the private sector, and from those arguing for more stringent privacy protection in both parties.The 2013 exposure of the government’s extensive surveillance programs into American lives through the leak of classified documents by Edward Snowden further muddied an agenda that many national security experts insisted was critical to preventing large scale cyberattacks on American infrastructure and businesses. Further, jurisdiction for cybersecurity snaked over an array of congressional committees, making unified legislation at times difficult.Lawmakers have been grappling with cybersecurity legislation since 2012, when a bipartisan Senate effort twice failed over business concerns that the legislation was putting too onerous a burden on the private sector.Leon E. Panetta, who was defense secretary at the time, and intelligence leaders implored lawmakers to shrug off the furious opposition of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, but lawmakers were not persuaded.











Political News, Now.







 



A House effort in the last Congress mustered strong opposition from the White House, which was concerned about jeopardizing the privacy rights of consumers.But since then, a series of cyberattacks has changed the political equation. The attack on Sony Pictures — Mr. Obama blamed North Korea for the attack — thwarted the wide release of a comedy portraying the assassination of North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Early this year, Anthem reported a major breach that exposed the records of nearly 80 million people. Just last week, Target agreed to reimburse MasterCard $19 million for losses associated with the theft of 40 million credit and debit card numbers from its computer network in December 2013.“We are under attack as I speak,” said Representative Dutch Ruppersberger, Democrat of Maryland. “To do nothing is not an option.”Privacy advocates continued to express anger legislation Wednesday on the House floor, creating unlikely alliances between some conservatives and left-leaning members.“We’ve seen before that the federal government has a poor track record of safeguarding our information when entrusted with it,” said Representative Jared Polis, Democrat of Colorado, on the House floor. “The last thing we should be doing,” is empowering them with more information access, he said. His comments were echoed by Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California. “Since 9/11 the government has begun to know more and more about what we are doing, where are, where we sleep, who we love,” he said, while consumers, “have known less and less.”At the same time, some feel the bill does not go far enough on national security. “I do believe we will see a cybersecurity bill enacted and signed into law,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine who has worked on the issue for years. “But it won’t be as strong as it should be to protect critical infrastructure.”However security experts said that the government would benefit from the information sharing as well. “The net effect of this legislation will be positive on national security side and economic security side,” said Mr. Kurtz.The White House issued a statement on Tuesday that commended the effort in the House but did raise concerns about the liability protections offered to private companies in the House bill, raising fears that they would be so sweeping that they might backfire and prevent companies from reporting cyberthreats.Privacy changes in the bill won over Representative Adam Schiff, Democrat of California and ranking member on the House Intelligence committee, who opposed it last year, and both parties expect the president to come along as well.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The timing for passage of the Senate version of the bill may be impeded by time-consuming amendments. That chamber is already snarled over a bill that would give Congress more say in a nuclear deal with Iran and a major trade measure. The Highway Trust Fund is nearly broke and requires legislative action before the end of the month, and a national security program at issue also requires renewal.Indeed there is some concern among some Republicans that the bill could become a vehicle for a debate about the broader national security and privacy matters. Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California who is the ranking member on the Senate Intelligence Committee said Wednesday she was confident that a bill would be passed and conferenced successfully with the House. “What matters is that we get it up,” she said.

The New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on April 23, 2015, on page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: House Passes Cybersecurity Bill After Companies Fall Victim to Data Breaches.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















