



COMPANY NEWS -  Computer Code Plan Challenged - NYTimes.com













































 



















Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Business Day





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos



















International
DealBook
Markets
Economy
Energy
Media
Technology
Personal Tech
Entrepreneurship
Your Money










COMPANY NEWS
COMPANY NEWS; Computer Code Plan Challenged


By JOHN MARKOFF


Published: May 29, 1993









                    The nation's largest computer makers have challenged a Clinton Administration plan to standardize a high-technology coding system that would let law-enforcement officials wiretap telephone calls and computer data transmissions.        

                    The manufacturers say modern computer coding technology is essential for commerce and industry and cannot be restricted by the Government without hurting business.        

                    The coding plan, developed secretly by the National Security Agency, was proposed last month by the National Institute for Standards and Technology, a Commerce Department agency. It calls for placing a special computer chip called the Clipper in a system that would encode telephone conversations.        

                    Law-enforcement officials would be able to create a numeric "master key" that provides access to data and telephone transmissions by presenting a warrant to two separate agencies charged with protecting pieces of the key. The idea is that splitting the key would make it harder for Government officials or others to abuse the master key. Plan Called Unworkable        

                    But the plan has drawn criticism from many computer researchers and civil libertarians who say that it would be unworkable and would have the potential to threaten privacy. On Thursday, 26 computer makers issued a statement criticizing the economic viability of the Clipper plan.        

                    "We're going to work through our concerns with the Government," said Ollie Smoot, the executive vice president of the Computer and Business Equipment Manufacturers Association, a Washington trade organization. "The White House has made a commitment to listen."        

                    The computer makers' statement was prepared for public testimony before the Computer System Security and Privacy Advisory Board, a Government review panel, which will begin three days of hearings on Wednesday on the Clipper plan and other public cryptography issues.        

                    In their statement, the computer makers say that "encryption issues no longer can be treated as the province of only a small circle of national security, law-enforcement and technology experts."        

                    Companies signing the statement included Apple Computer, A.T.& T., Compaq Computer, Digital Equipment, Hewlett-Packard, I.B.M., NCR, Tandem Computers and Xerox among others.        

                    The association also raised questions about the viability of the coding plan, saying it would effectively handicap American computer and telecommunications equipment makers overseas. The group said that few foreign buyers would be willing to buy a coding device if the National Security Agency or law-enforcement agencies had access to a master key.        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Inv1
