
  




Concerns Over Social Media Link to Virginia Girl’s Killing - The New York Times
















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Concerns Over Social Media Link to Virginia Girl’s Killing



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QVrnqE




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Concerns Over Social Media Link to Virginia Girl’s Killing

By HAWES SPENCER, SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑAFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






The police searched a pond on the Virginia Tech campus as part of the investigation into the abduction and murder of a 13-year-old girl.

Credit
            Brett Winter Lemon for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



BLACKSBURG, Va. —  The arrest of two Virginia Tech students in the abduction and murder of a 13-year-old girl who posted on a Facebook group called Teen Dating and Flirting — and showed neighbor children texts she said she exchanged with an 18-year-old man — has set off fresh concerns about the dangers of young people who seek liaisons on social media.







The two students — David Eisenhauer, 18, of Columbia, Md., and Natalie M. Keepers, 19, of Laurel, Md., both aspiring engineers — are being held without bond; they made brief court appearances Monday, but did not enter pleas. They are charged in the death of Nicole Madison Lovell, 13, a liver transplant recipient who disappeared from her home here last week. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Two Virginia Tech Students Arrested in Girl’s DeathJAN. 31, 2016







The murder has stunned this college community, though Virginia Tech — site of a 2007 massacre that remains the most deadly shooting by a single gunman in the nation’s history — is no stranger to sorrow and tragedy. And while the authorities have not said what, if any, role social media may have played in the killing, the girl’s electronic communications, and suggestions that she was bullied, have stirred deep concern here.
Photo






Nicole Madison Lovell.

Credit
            Blacksburg Police Department        


Stacey Snider, a neighbor of Nicole and mother of 8-year-old twins, said one of her daughters gave law enforcement authorities information that may have played a role in the arrests. The girls were playing in the snow with Nicole hours before her disappearance when, they said, she showed one of them texts she exchanged through Kik, a mobile instant messaging app, with an 18-year-old that included plans for an evening meeting.“She said that he was 18, but I didn’t think it was real,” Jaydon Snider, who said she saw the text, said in an interview Monday, in the cul-de-sac where Nicole lived. “I was like, ‘You shouldn’t do that.”Law enforcement officials have raised concerns about the Kik app as a potential vehicle for sexual predators, including a Bronx High School of Science Teacher arrested last year on charges of child pornography.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
It was not clear whether the 18-year-old was Mr. Eisenhauer. But in Maryland, the arrests of two seemingly promising students have sent shock waves through their home communities. Mr. Eisenhauer, a 2015 graduate of Wilde Lake High School in Columbia, was a high school track star and a good student — an “excellent student athlete,” the school principal, James LeMon, said — who had moved to Maryland from Washington State, and was once featured on a Baltimore television station for his track achievements.“I just have this internal thing saying I want to be the best,” the young man said then. He faces charges of first-degree murder; a statement from Blacksburg Police said Mr. Eisenhauer and Nicole were “acquainted prior to her disappearance” but did not say how. It said Mr. Eisenhauer, who was arrested on Saturday hours after Nicole’s remains were found in North Carolina, “used this relationship to abduct the 13-year-old and kill her,” and that Ms. Keepers helped him dispose of the body.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Ms. Keepers, a 2015 of Hammond High School in Columbia, worked on that school’s literary magazine and was the assistant director of its theater department. She was arrested on Sunday.Friends and neighbors described Nicole as a sweet girl; her two Facebook pages are filled with the usual stuff of a 13-year-old girl’s life — posts about pandas and boyfriends and music. But they also say she seemed to be connecting with older boys over social media in a way they found troublesome. One neighbor, Sara Demiri, 15, also said older boys on the school bus sometimes bullied Nicole.Nicole’s postings in the Facebook group Teen Dating and Flirting, a site replete with sexually charged messages — including some that appear to be from adults looking to prey on young people — have also stirred outrage and anger.“My first thought is that this kid was really too young to have been using Facebook,” said Jenn Burleson Mackay, an associate professor who teaches social media use in the Virginia Tech Department of Communication. “To be looking for boyfriends and dating advice on Facebook at age 13 just seems inappropriate.”Facebook declined to comment, except to say that it is looking at the group page. The company prohibits users under age 13, and publishes a set of community standards for use of the site that ban, among other things, nude images, threats, bullying, harassment, and anything that promotes sexual exploitation.Nicole’s mother, Tammy Weeks, declined to be interviewed on Monday; a police officer stood by the eight-unit, two-story apartment block where she lives here, and shooed a reporter away. But The Washington Post, in an article published in Monday’s newspaper, quoted Ms. Weeks saying that her daughter, a 7th-grader at Blacksburg Middle School here, was bullied on social media and at school, particularly about her appearance“She didn’t like going to school, because she was bullied,” the newspaper quoted Ms. Weeks as saying, adding that her daughter told her “girls were saying she was fat and talking about her scars from her transplant.” which included a tracheotomy scarAt Blacksburg Middle School on Monday, a sprawling brick structure set between a busy road and a picturesque view of the Blue Ridge Mountains, school officials called in counselors for the students — and asked reporters to keep their distance while their community grieved.Nicole’s disappearance, sometime between midnight and 7 a.m. Wednesday, prompted an intense search, and prompted her father, David Lovell, to issue an anguished plea on television for her to come home. In an interview with WDBJ, a Roanoke affiliate, the father said he was worried about his daughter’s health; she needed daily medications.“At this point, I know that she’s sick, she’s hurting, she’s probably already into convulsions, her liver is shutting down as we speak,” Mr. Lovell told the station, adding, “Right now, I’m scared to death.”On Monday, for the second day in a row, Virginia State Police divers searched a pond on the Virginia Tech campus. The State Police confirmed that the divers were searching for evidence in the death of Nicole, at the request of the Blacksburg police, but declined to be more specific or say what was found.Friends of Mr. Eisenhauer’s said on Monday that his social life, at least in high school, centered on the seven or eight long distance runners who hung out together. He took Advanced Placement classes and was not a partyer, said Paul Lyon, a high school classmate and fellow runner. “We’d go to someone’s house and get out the Xbox and play ‘Halo’ or something.”He was also running on the track and field team at Virginia Tech, though the school’s sports department has taken down its page about him.On the Virginia Tech campus, where memories are strong of the 2007 mass shooting, committed by a student, that left 32 people dead, there was deep dismay yet again.“We’ve obviously had a lot of tragedy here before,” said Devynn Breen, a junior from northern Maryland who majors in animal and poultry science. “But it’s just hard to think that one of your fellow Hokies is capable of this.”


Hawes Spencer reported from Blacksburg, Sheryl Gay Stolberg from Washington, and Richard Pérez-Peña from New York.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















