
  




Cory Schneider, Brodeur’s Successor, Is Helping the Devils Rebuild - The New York Times



































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Hockey|Cory Schneider, Brodeur’s Successor, Is Helping the Devils Rebuild



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1WYypeR




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Hockey 
Cory Schneider, Brodeur’s Successor, Is Helping the Devils Rebuild

By DAVE CALDWELLFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






Goalie Cory Schneider, facing John Scott in Saturday’s All-Star Game skills competition, leads the N.H.L. in ice time this season.

Credit
            Aaron Doster/USA Today Sports, via Reuters        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



NEWARK —  Cory and Jill Schneider have a 3-month-old son, Wyatt, and the family just moved into a house in Short Hills, N.J., with a backyard that Cory says is big enough for their 11-year-old sheepdog, Bella.







In that way, Cory Schneider, one month from his 30th birthday, is finally settling down. But he is also still thriving in his role as the Devils’ No. 1 goaltender, a season and a half after inheriting the job from Martin Brodeur, whose No. 30 jersey number will be retired Feb. 9.Schneider sounded like a suburbanite when he said, with a smile: “I think Jersey sometimes gets an unfair label. You get off the turnpike, and there are just beautiful towns, beautiful places to live, nice communities. There’s a lot going on.” 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









John Scott, an Unlikely N.H.L. All-Star, Becomes the Game’s Equally Unlikely M.V.P.JAN. 31, 2016











Detroit Rookie Dylan Larkin Shines in the Skills CompetitionJAN. 30, 2016











Honing Skills in U.S., a Group of Teenagers Is Fueling China’s Hockey ShiftJAN. 30, 2016











Two Women’s Hockey Leagues Can Bank on a FutureJAN. 30, 2016







What has not happened in New Jersey since Schneider was acquired from the Vancouver Canucks on June 30, 2013, is a playoff game. The Devils, winners of three Cups from 1995 to 2003, have missed the playoffs in four of the last five seasons. Schneider, a polite and chatty redhead, has a mission: to get the Devils to the postseason.
Photo






Schneider has 22 victories, with a .929 save percentage and a 2.03 goals against average.

Credit
            Bruce Bennett/Getty Images        


After Ray Shero replaced Lou Lamoriello, the general manager for 28 years, and hired as coach the N.H.L. rookie John Hynes last summer, the Devils were expected to have a rebuilding season, appearing to have little firepower to win games by even 2-1 or 1-0.But the Devils (25-20-5, 55 points) hold down ninth place in the Eastern Conference entering the two-month final push of the regular season, which they open Tuesday at home against the Rangers. Pittsburgh (24-17-7, 55 points) holds a wild-card playoff spot because it has played two fewer games than the Devils. Only 4 points separate the third- and ninth-place teams in the Eastern standings.Schneider, who played in his first All-Star Game on Sunday, has been on the ice more than any player in the N.H.L. this season: 2,509 minutes 33 seconds. He is among the top seven goalies in four key statistical categories, with a .929 save percentage, a 2.03 goals against average, four shutouts and 22 victories.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
“When you can build from the net out, you give yourself a good chance every night,” Hynes said.Kyle Palmieri, who has scored a career-high 20 goals in his first season with the Devils, said of Schneider: “It goes beyond just being on the ice and competing in practice. He raises his game to another level once it’s time to drop the puck in the real deal.“Away from the ice, you see how much he cares and how much of a professional he is,” Palmieri said. “With a goalie with the workload he has, it’s incredible that he brings his ‘A’ game every night. He doesn’t have nights off. He’s a guy a lot of goalies can learn from.”After finishing among the bottom four N.H.L. teams in scoring in each of the last three seasons, the Devils have inched up to fifth-worst in the league, with 114 goals. But they have been outscored by only four goals this season.“Listen, we’ve been in a lot of one-goal games, and he always comes up big for us,” Devils center Travis Zajac said. “He’s stolen some games for us this year. He’s a guy who brings it every day with his work ethic. He’s got a quiet confidence back there, and he’s been around some good goalies to learn from, and now I think he’s taken the ball and run with it.”
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
It is all but impossible for Schneider to hide from Brodeur’s legacy; mini-replicas of the three Stanley Cups are on a shelf in the Devils’ dressing room, and many of Brodeur’s records and accomplishments are detailed on the walls. Before Brodeur’s number will be hoisted to the rafters at the Rock next week, a bronze statue of him will be unveiled.
Continue reading the main story







Sports Newsletter
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.







Schneider, at 6 feet 3 inches and 205 pounds, is an inch taller but 15 pounds lighter than Brodeur. While Brodeur used a hybrid butterfly style to make acrobatic saves and handled a stick like a light saber, Schneider plays to the textbook, rarely getting caught out of position. His .926 career save percentage is .014 better than Brodeur’s.In his first season with the Devils, Schneider split time with Brodeur. Although both goalies handled the situation gracefully in public, each also made it clear he wanted to play more. When Brodeur became a free agent in July 2014, Lamoriello let him go, instead handing Schneider a seven-year contract extension worth $42 million.“In terms of replacing him, I learned pretty quickly that I’m going to have to be my own guy,” Schneider said of Brodeur. “What I am trying to do is to continue that tradition of great goaltending. Marty set the standard of ‘We’re not going to get any easy ones against Jersey.’ He set that standard for a long time. So, for me, I see that as my challenge.”Before the Devils picked him up from the Canucks in a stunning trade on N.H.L. draft day at Prudential Center, Schneider split time in Vancouver with Roberto Luongo, who is now with the Florida Panthers and is also ranked among the top N.H.L. goaltenders.Schneider liked playing in Vancouver, which loves its hockey club. Schneider said the team was close, so Vancouver felt like a second home to the Boston area, where he grew up and where he and his wife like to spend their summers.Before he was traded, Schneider, much like Brodeur before he was drafted, said he knew virtually nothing about New Jersey, other than that it was across the river from New York City. But their relatives were four hours away, and Cory and Jill liked living for two years in Hoboken.“That first year was definitely a transition year for me,” he said. “I was just trying to get a feel for everything. Lou ran things a certain way. That was refreshing, but also, at times, it was hard, because you got to figure it out and you’re trying to do the right things. You had to learn what it was like to be a Devil. And that took a little while.”Lamoriello is gone, and Shero and Hynes have relaxed rules to include regular-season beards. Schneider has one.But he remains an intense competitor, even if the atmosphere around the team is a little more carefree. In their final home game before the All-Star break, the Devils scored five first-period goals in a 6-3 victory over Ottawa. But Schneider smashed his stick on the goal post and again on the bench after allowing a late goal.“Hey, we’re going to have to come through, all of us, and not just shut down one or two guys,” Schneider said. “We score by committee, we defend by committee, we count on each other to get the job done and not rely on one or two guys to go do it for us.”





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















