
  




Security at Paris Fashion Shows Less Strict Than Anticipated - The New York Times







































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Fashion & Style|Security at Paris Fashion Shows Less Strict Than Anticipated



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1OSF7hc




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Fashion & Style 
Security at Paris Fashion Shows Less Strict Than Anticipated

By ELIZABETH PATONJAN. 25, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






A police patrol at the Eiffel Tower on Thursday, during the Paris men’s wear shows.

Credit
            Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York Times        


PARIS — The City of Light was plunged into darkness on a mild night last November, when 130 people were killed in terrorist attacks across Paris. Two months later, France is still in a state of emergency, with security barriers and increased patrols of police officers and soldiers carrying automatic weapons a common sight, even though residents say the fear that hung over the city before Christmas is less palpable now.Nevertheless, a spokesman for Fédération Française de la Couture, the organization responsible for coordinating the twice-yearly couture shows, which began on Sunday night, informed attendees that it would take added safety precautions this season. Guests, who were told to bring identification to every show, girded themselves for long lines and searches.And then the IDs sat, unused, in their bags.At Versace on Sunday night, checkpoints were staffed solely by pretty public-relations girls; clutching a paper invitation seemed more than enough verification for them. The same applied at Schiaparelli on Monday morning as the street-style photographers went wild for Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, the former French first lady, or the actress Kate Bosworth, though a few unmarked police cars were parked nearby on the Rue de la Paix.“I can’t say I’ve seen tighter security measures than usual,’’ Stefano Tonchi, the editor of W magazine, said from the front row of Miu Miu’s mini-show on Monday. “In high-profile locations or government buildings they have been checking bags I suppose, but then that has always been the policy in those types of show locations.”Indeed, the few exceptions to the rule were the Hermès men’s wear show and, to a lesser extent, Dior’s couture show, both of which were held in public buildings.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Long lines formed outside the Hermès show, held at the Maison de la Radio on Saturday, and the show began about 40 minutes past the scheduled 8 p.m. start because attendees had to pass through metal detectors and be checked with hand-held wands as well as submit their invitations to very close inspection. (There were no requests for photo ID, however.)Similarly, at Dior, one of the biggest couture shows of the week, held Monday afternoon at the Musée Rodin, white security tents had been erected and a small army of immaculately clad staff members cast cursory glances through bags and ran metal detectors over guests at the entrance.Still, the Dior chief executive, Sidney Toledano, emphasized that although measures had been heightened since November, the house had long invested in security at its shows because of the number of celebrities and wealthy clients. As a result, he said, the latest measures did not represent a significant escalation.But he added: “The best security are the police you don’t see. I pointed that out to the Fédération.”

Stuart Emmrich contributed reporting.


Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















