
  




Cyberattacks Temporarily Cripple 2 Israeli Web Sites - The New York Times


































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Middle East|2 Israeli Web Sites Crippled as Cyberwar Escalates



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Middle East 
2 Israeli Web Sites Crippled as Cyberwar Escalates

By ISABEL KERSHNERJAN. 16, 2012



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








JERUSALEM — Israel faced an escalating cyberwar on Monday as unknown attackers disrupted access to the symbolically strategic Web sites of the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange and El Al, the national airline.A hacker identifying himself as oxOmar, already notorious for posting the details of more than 20,000 Israeli credit cards, sent an overnight warning to Israel’s Ynet news outlet that a group of pro-Palestinian cyberattackers called Nightmare planned to bring down the sites in the morning.The attackers did not break into the sites’ operating systems, but used a far simpler tactic: creating an overload of access attempts. Neither the Israeli economy nor flights in and out of the country were endangered, and the sites appeared to be recovering within hours, but the assault left many Israelis feeling vulnerable.Yoni Shemesh, who is responsible for the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange Web site, said that his team had already begun preparing for an attack a few days ago and went on high alert after the Ynet report.“We are putting up blocks to the hackers,” he told Israel Radio at noon, about three hours after the attack started. “It is a real cyberwar.”
Photo






The Web site of the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange was hit Monday, along with that of the airline El Al.

Credit
            Oliver Weiken/European Pressphoto Agency        


El Al said it took down its site as a cautionary measure as soon as unusual activity was noticed about 10 a.m.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The Web site usually sees about 50 simultaneous access requests at any given moment in the morning hour, according to a spokeswoman for the airline, speaking anonymously per policy. “As soon as we saw that the number had risen to about 1,000, we closed it down,” she said.A spokesman for Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza, praised the hackers for opening up a new resistance front against Israel.Israel is widely considered a technological powerhouse and a hub of high-tech industry. But Avi Weissman, the chief executive of See Security InfoSec and Cyber Warfare College and chairman of the Israeli Forum for Information Security, a nonprofit organization, told the radio that in the cyberrealm, Israel may be a power “in terms of attack, but in terms of defense, we are a very small and pretty neglected country.Professor Yitzhak Ben Yisrael, a military scientist who has advised the government on cybersecurity, said that the country had been working to protect its most vital systems in the security establishment and in the civilian sphere, including electricity, water and trains, for more than 10 years.The hacker oxOmar described himself as a 19-year-old from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, when he posted the details of the thousands of Israeli credit cards, turning himself into a household name here. A few days later, a hacker presenting himself as an Israeli and going by the name oxOmer — a twist of the Saudi handle — countered by posting details of what he said were more than 200 Saudi credit cards. But he did not expose the security codes, saying his aim was only to “alert.”

A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 2012, on page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: 2 Israeli Web Sites Crippled As Cyberwar Escalates.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage






Military Drill With the U.S. Is Postponed, Israeli Says
JAN. 16, 2012
























Related Coverage







Military Drill With the U.S. Is Postponed, Israeli Says
JAN. 16, 2012









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















