
  




Market Retreats as Materials and Energy Stocks Tumble - The New York Times


































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Market Retreats as Materials and Energy Stocks Tumble



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1R3tOTu




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Market Retreats as Materials and Energy Stocks Tumble

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Continue reading the main story










 







Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Stocks closed solidly lower, led by a drop in energy companies as the price of crude oil took another tumble.Murphy Oil dropped 15 percent Tuesday and oil rig operator Transocean lost 10 percent.Hamburger chain Shake Shack dropped 12 percent after delivering results and an outlook that disappointed investors.Traders were also discouraged by weak trade figures from China.The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 22 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,979. The Nasdaq composite gave up 59 points, or 1.3 percent, to 4,648.The Dow Jones industrial average fell 109 points, or 0.6 percent, to 16,964.The losses ended a five-day winning streak for the S.&P.; 500 index.Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.82 percent.THE QUOTE “We’re overbought,” said Bill Stone, chief investment officer of the PNC Asset Management Group, noting that the S.&P.; 500 was up about 10 percent from mid-February. “People are taking some profits off of the larger run-up from the low.”SHAKE QUAKE Shares of the hamburger chain Shake Shack dropped 11 percent after the company delivered results and an outlook that disappointed investors.DIVIDED AT UNITED United Continental shares fell 1 percent after two investment firms went public on an effort to add six of its nominees to the board. They also want to give a prominent role to the ex-chief executive credited with saving Continental more than a decade ago. The two firms, Altimeter Capital Management and PAR Capital Management, own a combined 7.1 percent stake of the airline.SALES SLIP Dick’s Sporting Goods stock fell 2.6 percent. The company’s fourth-quarter results fell short of analysts’ expectations as a warmer-than-usual winter crimped the retailer’s sales. Its guidance for the future also disappointed.URBAN JUMPS Shares of the retailer Urban Outfitters rose 16 percent after the company reported strong earnings and improved margins during the holiday season. The company, based in Philadelphia, said it earned $72.9 million, or 61 cents a share, in its fourth quarter ended Jan. 31, better than analysts had expected.OIL FALLS Benchmark United States crude oil fell $1.08 to $36.82 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It jumped $1.98 on Monday. Brent crude, which is used to price international oils, fell $1.16 to $39.68 a barrel.CHINA TRADE China’s exports plunged 25 percent in February from a year earlier, as weak global demand and a business shutdown during the Lunar New Year holiday combined to depress sales. Customs data on Tuesday also showed that imports fell 14 percent.EUROPEAN MARKETS In Germany, the DAX fell 0.9 percent, and in France, the CAC 40 lost 0.9 percent. The FTSE 100 was also down 0.9 percent in Britain.ASIA’S DAY The Nikkei 225 declined 0.8 percent in Japan, while in Hong Kong, the Hang Seng ended down 0.7 percent. The Shanghai composite index added 0.1 percent in China. The Kospi lost 0.6 percent in South Korea. In Australia, the S.&P.;/ASX 200 lost 0.7 percent.CURRENCIES The euro rose to $1.1046 from $1.1013. The dollar edged down to 112.77 yen from 113.27 yen.METALS Prices for industrial and precious metals ended broadly lower. Gold slipped $1.10 to $1,262.90 an ounce, silver fell 24 cents to $15.39 an ounce and copper lost six cents to $2.22 a pound.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















