
  




David Barton Reinvents His Gym Empire - The New York Times
































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Fashion & Style|David Barton Reinvents His Gym Empire



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QJNE6R




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Fashion & Style 
David Barton Reinvents His Gym Empire

By MICHAEL SCHULMANMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






David Barton inside his new gym, TMPL, in Hell’s Kitchen.

Credit
            Nina Westervelt for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



“I’m dressed for a construction site, so pardon my casual presentation,” David Barton said one recent Friday afternoon in Hell’s Kitchen. But his appearance was classic Barton: ripped jeans, mesh hoodie that exposed his “George of the Jungle” pecs, camouflage robe, hair spiking every which way.







And muscles. Lots of muscles.As he spoke, the sinews of his neck occasionally twitched, making his squarish frame seem like a TNT box about to detonate. At 51, the man who built a sweaty, sexy gym empire stands as a 5-foot-5 testament to body worship as urban religion.So it’s no surprise that his new gym, TMPL, has a name that evokes a pagan ritual crossed with an iPhone app. (His 21-year-old son, Bailey, came up with the name Temple, but “I decided to lose the vowels to make it more modern,” he said. ) 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Six New Gyms to Get Fit in New YorkMARCH 8, 2016







Set to open March 23 on West 49th Street, the fitness center is his first since leaving his namesake company under a financial cloud. “I like that my name’s not on the door,” he said. But there wasn’t much of a choice. When Mr. Barton left David Barton Gym in 2013, he forfeited the rights to his name after spending two decades making it synonymous with a gym-as-nightclub aesthetic.
Photo






Equipment in the new gym, which is set to open March 23.

Credit
            Nina Westervelt for The New York Times        


Known for their mood lighting, live D.J.s and celebrity clients like Anderson Cooper, Zoe Saldana and Marc Jacobs, Mr. Barton’s gyms ushered in an era of see-and-be-seen fitness. Drag queens worked out in platform heels. Locker rooms doubled as hookup joints. (“I do like to feel like I’m the godfather of many a relationship,” Mr. Barton said cheekily.)As beefy impresario, Mr. Barton was often said to be a better mascot than manager. In early 2011, saddled with more than $65 million in debt, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, even as three locations were being built. Both he and the company say the breakup was mutual. “I’d been there 20 years,” Mr. Barton said. “It was time. I didn’t enjoy being the corporate C.E.O.”His resurgence, which comes, fittingly, on the heels of Rocky Balboa’s, is as attuned to the moment as his Chelsea and Astor Place locations were to the downtown party scene they mirrored. The largely gay crowd that flocked to David Barton Gym has migrated to Hell’s Kitchen.TMPL is also being billed as a “smart gym”: high-tech and customizable, like a self-parking car (or a hookup app like Grindr). Publicity materials even borrow the jargon of Silicon Valley, touting Mr. Barton as a “disrupter and visionary within the gym industry.”Capitalizing on the rise of celebrity trainers and personalized medicine, Mr. Barton worked with the clinical pharmacist and author James LaValle to develop a metabolic assessment for incoming gym members so that all will get individually tailored workout and nutritional plans.“Everything in our lives is getting smart except the gym,” he said. “My phone knows when I’m hungry and it calls my mother.”
Continue reading the main story







NYT Living Newsletter
Get lifestyle news from the Style, Travel and Food sections, from the latest trends to news you can use.








Mr. Barton, who studied nutrition and psychology at Cornell, is accustomed to combining brains and brawn. “For all his downtown high jinks, David is quite serious in many ways,” said William Sofield of the design firm Studio Sofield, which worked on TMPL and several David Barton Gym sites. “David at heart is very much an intellectual bordering on almost a nerd. He could have easily been cast on ‘The Big Bang Theory.’”
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
TMPL occupies a beige-and-salmon-brick building at One Worldwide Plaza that formerly housed a Bally Sports Club — just the sort of fluorescent-lit fitness chain that Mr. Barton made a career of disrupting.Amid the roar of electric saws, he led a brief tour of the 40,000-square-foot space, describing the constructivist décor to come: concrete walls swathed in cashmere curtains, black-mirror columns and Eileen Gray Bibendum chairs, all in muted and muddy tones, “like those colors that don’t really have a name.”He descended a staircase into a tall atrium, which will be glammed up with programmable lighting. “This is your first sort of money shot,” he said. “A lot of gyms do lighting and it’s like when you open up the refrigerator in the middle of the night.”He pointed out a future cardio room, a squat-rack room (“a lot of women now are squatting because of, like, social media”) and a spinning room that will immerse patrons in an IMAX-like virtual landscape.And then there are the sexier elements: an 82-foot saltwater pool and locker rooms that Mr. Barton promised would get “darker, with more dramatic lighting.”
Photo






Mr. Barton in the old McBurney Y.M.C.A., which was renovated to become a David Barton Gym in 2004.

Credit
            Ruby Washington/The New York Times        


But he played down his reputation for creating gyms that resemble nightclubs. “David Barton Gym was me at 27,” he said, “and this is me at 51.”Part of Mr. Barton’s post-50 life is his return to semi-singlehood.For years, he and Susanne Bartsch, the Swiss party hostess, represented one of New York’s most outré power couples. With her outrageous wigs and his outrageous biceps, they were like a punked-out Boris and Natasha. Known for her Dionysian blowouts at the Copacabana in the 1980s, Ms. Bartsch took time off to raise Bailey before resuming her role as a bedazzled queen of the night.But the marriage frayed along with Mr. Barton’s balance sheet. Ms. Bartsch remained in her opium-den-like quarters at the Chelsea Hotel, while Mr. Barton moved to an apartment nearby. They never bothered divorcing. The couple are now “99 percent separated,” Mr. Barton said, adding that TMPL’s opening party on March 22 will be a Bartsch affair.Otherwise, Mr. Barton’s not-quite-bachelor lifestyle is big on work and low on thrills, he said. He plays the drums with his electro-rock band, Liquid Blonde, spends time with his and Ms. Bartsch’s beloved schnauzer, Bippy, and visits his 82-year-old mother, who lives a few blocks away.After the tour, Mr. Barton crossed the plaza to a Mexican restaurant and ordered an iced tea. The traces of his past lives, romantic and professional, may be strewn around Manhattan like so many discarded gym clothes after a workout, but he seemed chipper.“I’m stronger than I was at 30,” he said. “I get out of bed in the morning, I look in the mirror, and I’m happy I’m David Barton.”


Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















