
  




Defense Secretary Takes Position Against a Data ‘Back Door’ - The New York Times









































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|Defense Secretary Takes Position Against a Data ‘Back Door’



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1UzVKEq




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
Defense Secretary Takes Position Against a Data ‘Back Door’

By NICOLE PERLROTHMARCH 2, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








SAN FRANCISCO — Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter assured an audience of computer security experts Wednesday that he was not in favor of a “back door” that would give the government access to data that is protected by encryption.Speaking at the annual RSA Conference, Secretary Carter sought common ground with companies worried by Apple’s fight with the Federal Bureau of Investigation over access to an iPhone.“Just to cut to the chase, I’m not a believer in back doors or a single technical approach,” Secretary Carter said to loud applause during a panel discussion at the conference. “I don’t think it’s realistic. I don’t think that’s technically accurate.”Apple is resisting a court order that would require it to create software to break the password mechanism in an iPhone used by one of the assailants in the December mass shooting in San Bernardino, Calif.The F.B.I. argues that it is not asking for any sort of permanent back door and is merely asking for help in circumventing a single phone’s password protection. People in the tech industry worry, however, that the request for help in the San Bernardino case is merely a prelude and point to a number of other pending cases in which law enforcement authorities would like Apple’s assistance.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The software Apple is being asked to create could be considered a back door because it could provide special access to information that would otherwise be inaccessible thanks to passwords or encryption.Secretary Carter’s comments, though short on specifics, highlight the challenges various government agencies will face as they seek cooperation from Silicon Valley as the court fight between Apple and F.B.I. continues.Also on Wednesday, Secretary Carter said Alphabet’s executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, would head a new Defense Innovation Board to help connect tech companies and entrepreneurs with various Pentagon initiatives. And he announced a Hack the Pentagon initiative, which would reward hackers who find and turn over vulnerabilities in the Pentagon’s computer systems.“I don’t think we ought to let one case drive a single solution,” Secretary Carter said, referring to the F.B.I.-Apple dispute. “We have to innovate our way to a sensible result. And we need to do that because you can easily think of alternatives. One is a law written by people who don’t have the technical expertise, one written in anger or grief, and that’s not likely to work.”Many at the conference have compared the F.B.I’s software request — some are even calling it “GovtOS,” short for government operating system — to asking journalists to write a false article, or turn over a source, on national security grounds.Dan Kaminsky, a well-known security researcher, likened the government’s approach to persecuting firefighters during a firestorm. The point being, he wrote in an article on Wired.com, that at a time when data breaches happen regularly, the F.B.I. is trying to force Apple to weaken the security of its phones instead of advocating stronger security.Secretary Carter echoed the need for stronger security but avoided taking a side in the F.B.I.-Apple dispute. “The problems of data security are many,” he said. “There isn’t going to be one answer. There are lots of different parts to this.”If Silicon Valley and Washington cannot find some alternative solution through innovation, Secretary Carter added, the most likely result would be a poorly written law, “or a solution written by China or Russia.”“And you know what their view of data access and security is,” he said.

A version of this article appears in print on March 3, 2016, on page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Defense Secretary Says He’s Not in Favor of a Data ‘Back Door’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










White House Officials Soften Approach at RSA Conference
MARCH 1, 2016












STATE OF THE ART 

A Plan in Case Robots Take the Jobs: Give Everyone a Paycheck
MARCH 2, 2016













F.B.I. Error Locked San Bernardino Attacker’s iPhone
MARCH 1, 2016













Apple Wins Ruling in New York iPhone Hacking Order
FEB. 29, 2016













Apple Goes to Court, and F.B.I. Presses Congress to Settle iPhone Privacy Fight
FEB. 25, 2016
























Related Coverage







White House Officials Soften Approach at RSA Conference
MARCH 1, 2016












STATE OF THE ART 

A Plan in Case Robots Take the Jobs: Give Everyone a Paycheck
MARCH 2, 2016













F.B.I. Error Locked San Bernardino Attacker’s iPhone
MARCH 1, 2016















Apple Wins Ruling in New York iPhone Hacking Order
FEB. 29, 2016













Apple Goes to Court, and F.B.I. Presses Congress to Settle iPhone Privacy Fight
FEB. 25, 2016












Show All





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















