
  




A Tabletop Sanctuary - The New York Times












































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Food|A Tabletop Sanctuary



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KlarZ7




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Food 
A Tabletop Sanctuary



Close at Hand 
By                     
LIGAYA MISHAN

FEB. 1, 2016



Inside










Photo






Priya Chandra and Imam Khalid Latif with their son, Kareem.

Credit
            Alex Welsh for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Until six months ago, Imam Khalid Latif, a chaplain of the New York Police Department and the executive director of the Islamic Center at New York University, did not own a dining table.With his wife, Priya Chandra, and their daughter, Madina, now 3, he made do with eating on the couch or the floor, just as he had as a bachelor chaplain in residence living in the same N.Y.U. dormitory apartment.An island once stood in the open kitchen, effectively functioning as a hall closet. “We threw our clothes on the stools,” Ms. Chandra said. Days before their son, Kareem, was born, with half the apartment under renovation, the table arrived from Macy’s. Its particulars (acacia wood, dark rustic finish) mattered less than simply having a place to sit and eat together.For Imam Latif, 33, it is this intangible, the sense of the dining table as a sanctuary, that he most treasures. “Being at home,” he said. “Eating food made by someone who knows you, who loves you.”




Close at Hand
Celebrating the objects, practical or precious, that cooks find indispensable.







                                Anne Serrano-McClain’s Trays Serve Up History            








                                In Six Compartments, All the Flavors of Home            








                                Danielle Gould’s Repurposed Chopping Block            








                                Paul Theroux’s Egg-Tested Nonstick Frying Pan            








                                For David Lebovitz, a Mortar and Pestle Trumps Any Gadget            






See More »



“My relationship to food has been really interesting because it’s had a lot to do with my spiritual development,” he said. He grew up in Edison, N.J., the son of Pakistani immigrants with roots in Kashmir. When he was 10, he brought home a bag of Rice Krispies Treats. His sister informed him that they contained gelatin, which comes from pigs and is thus not halal, or permitted for Muslims.
Photo







Credit
            Alex Welsh for The New York Times        


Bewildered, he locked himself in his bedroom and ate the whole bag. They were his last Rice Krispies Treats. Soon after, he gave up marshmallow-strewn Lucky Charms, along with, he said, “a really, really big part of my heart.”Eventually, he started to eat only zabihah meat, from animals slaughtered in accordance with Islamic law: one quick slash to the throat for as painless a death as possible, done with a blessing.

He first witnessed an animal’s death when he was a child visiting relatives in Pakistan. A week before Eid al-Fitr (the Muslim feast celebrating the end of Ramadan, a month of fasts), a goat suddenly appeared in his aunt’s yard.“We’re playing with it, combing its hair, brushing its teeth,” he said. “Then a man came and killed it.” He invoked his childhood horror: “‘Why did you do that?’”
Continue reading the main story




        Follow NYT Food's board Tomatoes on Pinterest. 





At 18, Imam Latif thought he needed to slaughter an animal himself, to understand “what are the ethics here, what are we really doing.” He went to a farm and found himself standing in front of a goat. “It was a surreal experience,” he said. “You’re asking a part of creation to give its life so your life can be sustained.”

In 2014, he and two partners opened Honest Chops, an East Village butcher shop devoted to selling meat that is not only zabihah, but also from animals raised humanely. He was shocked to visit farms and see chickens “so large they can’t stand,” he said. “They have no feathers on their stomachs.”Last Ramadan, in the spirit of mindful consumption, he decided to relinquish sugar. This proved brutal. “He was a very angry man,” Ms. Chandra said, laughing.

Gone are the days when he might tweet a photograph of a half-eaten chocolate-chip cookie from a bake sale for the Islamic Center, or air suspicions on Facebook that his wife was “stealing” one of his cookies.“I ate it,” she admitted. “That was when I was pregnant.”“It wasn’t just one,” he said.


Close at Hand celebrates the objects, practical or precious, that cooks find indispensable.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















