
  




For Donald Trump, ‘Get ’Em Out’ Is the New ‘You’re Fired’ - The New York Times





















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|For Donald Trump, ‘Get ’Em Out’ Is the New ‘You’re Fired’



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/22eh8RE




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
For Donald Trump, ‘Get ’Em Out’ Is the New ‘You’re Fired’

By ALAN RAPPEPORT and MAGGIE HABERMANMARCH 13, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Donald J. Trump speaking in Fayetteville, N.C., last week as Secret Service agents watch over the audience.

Credit
            Travis Dove for The New York Times        


When the head of a local gun group tried to present Donald J. Trump with a lifetime membership card at a campaign event on Sunday in Cincinnati, Mr. Trump asked the man to toss it to him over a phalanx of guards, not wanting an unfamiliar member of the crowd to get too close.Earlier in the day, at a rally in Illinois, Mr. Trump hoped to invite a Hispanic supporter from the audience to join him onstage and say a few words. But first he asked his security personnel if they would allow it.“He knows if he makes a move, he’s going to get clobbered by these guys,” Mr. Trump said, offering something of a warning to anyone who would do him harm.As Mr. Trump’s campaign events have grown more vitriolic, the security presence surrounding him has been increasingly on edge. The shift has come months after people around Mr. Trump, particularly his children, urged him to tighten his protection out of concern that he would be attacked.
Video

Trump Reacts to Security Scare at Rally


Donald J.Trump was surrounded by security personnel during an interruption by a person in the crowd at his rally in Vandalia, Ohio, on Saturday.

                    By REUTERS on                                                                Publish Date March 12, 2016.
                                    

                                            Photo by Victor J. Blue for The New York Times.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed










The concern was amplified at an event in Dayton, Ohio, on Saturday, when a man hurdled a security barrier and tried to charge the stage before being tackled. Secret Service agents, who were assigned to him last fall, rushed to form a protective circle around Mr. Trump.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The Trump campaign would not comment on security specifics, but local police officers, the Secret Service and his private detail are present at rallies. This security apparatus has gained attention, particularly after this weekend, for both its role in protecting the candidate and in ejecting protesters from his events.The phrase “Get ’em out” has replaced “You’re fired” in Mr. Trump’s vernacular, offering him an air of iron-fisted authority to buttress the image of toughness he projects.But the handling of protesters at Mr. Trump’s events has raised questions about the methods and makeup of his security apparatus and the rights of peaceful critics to speak without being silenced. Despite accusations of suppression by some protesters, legal experts say that campaigns have the discretion to remove people from private events as they see fit, as long as they are not doing so based on race.
Video

Trump’s History of Encouraging Violence


Donald J. Trump has appealed to the raw anger of voters and encouraged crowds at rallies to use force against protesters who are disruptive.

                    By AINARA TIEFENTHÄLER on                                                                Publish Date March 14, 2016.
                                    

                                            Photo by Eric Thayer for The New York Times.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed










Mr. Trump’s in-house security is led by Keith Schiller, a retired detective from the New York Police Department, who is omnipresent at his boss’s side. Mr. Schiller, who in September punched a Latino protester in the face outside Trump Tower in New York, is fiercely devoted to Mr. Trump, and was the first person to leap onto the dais in Dayton when the activist came running. Mr. Trump employs several other security guards, some of whom, in recent weeks, have been seen moving in plain clothes into crowds to try to end disruptions.While their boss’s language tends to be caustic, the security guards have seemed to try defusing tense situations instead of inflaming them. According to campaign finance filings, Mr. Trump has spent about $170,000 on “security services” throughout his campaign.While Mr. Trump’s contractors handle some scuffles, in recent episodes in places like Fayetteville, N.C., it was local law enforcement that appeared to be involved in removing protesters.Mickey Nelson, a retired assistant director of protective operations with the Secret Service, said that agents coordinate with the police and would be involved with removing someone only as a last resort. 








                    OPEN Graphic                



            Graphic: 2016 Delegate Count and Primary Results        


“Secret Service only gets involved if an individual poses a security threat or interferes with law enforcement activity,” Mr. Nelson said.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Seemingly frustrated with the frequent interruptions at his events, Mr. Trump has threatened legal action against protesters, or “disrupters” as he has called them. On Saturday evening in Kansas City, Mo., Mr. Trump repeatedly said he would start filing charges against protesters in the future to teach them a lesson. As the night wore on, and disruptions became more frequent, Mr. Trump looked down at a woman protesting and called to law enforcement, “Arrest her. Arrest her.”While Mr. Trump complains that protesters are violating his First Amendment rights, many of his critics wonder about their own ability to speak out. At a Trump campaign event held at Valdosta State University in Georgia last month, several black students complained to the police that they did not understand why they were kicked out.Lee Rowland, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union, said that because campaign events are considered “political theater,” candidates who rent event spaces have the right to disinvite anyone they choose. Those who resist could be charged with trespassing.“The reason the ejection of protesters sits so ill with people is because protesters are being ejected from rallies where the individual holding the rallies is seeking the highest office in the land,” Ms. Rowland said. “The first act of that office is swearing an oath to the Constitution, including the First Amendment.”

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on March 14, 2016, on page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: For Trump, ‘Get ’Em Out’ Is the New ‘You’re Fired’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story














Presidential Election 2016
Here’s the latest news and analysis of the candidates and issues shaping the presidential race.








                                Empathy May Be Overrated in an Election, and in a Leader            
MAR 21








                                Donald Trump Is Finally Uniting Top Republican Donors — Against Him            
MAR 20








                                Older Voters May Be Hillary Clinton’s Answer to Bernie Sanders’s Youth Appeal            
MAR 20








                                Donald Trump Is a Punch Line for Obama, Who Is Getting More Jokes Ready            
MAR 20








                                Donald Trump Courts Wary Jewish Voters            
MAR 20






See More »








Related Coverage










Ohio Looms Large in Both Races on Tuesday
MARCH 13, 2016












Opinion                         Editorial


The Trump Campaign Gives License to Violence
MARCH 14, 2016













Donald Trump’s Heated Words Were Destined to Stir Violence, Opponents Say
MARCH 12, 2016












REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK 

Covering Donald Trump, and Witnessing the Danger Up Close
MARCH 12, 2016













Donald Trump’s Rally in Chicago Canceled After Violent Scuffles
MARCH 11, 2016
























Related Coverage







Ohio Looms Large in Both Races on Tuesday
MARCH 13, 2016












Opinion                         Editorial


The Trump Campaign Gives License to Violence
MARCH 14, 2016













Donald Trump’s Heated Words Were Destined to Stir Violence, Opponents Say
MARCH 12, 2016














REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK 

Covering Donald Trump, and Witnessing the Danger Up Close
MARCH 12, 2016













Donald Trump’s Rally in Chicago Canceled After Violent Scuffles
MARCH 11, 2016













Riskiest Political Act of 2016? Protesting at Rallies for Donald Trump
MARCH 10, 2016












Opinion                         Nicholas Kristof


Donald the Dangerous
MARCH 5, 2016












Show All





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















