
  




Harvard Offers Explanation for Search of E-Mail Accounts - The New York Times

































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Education|Harvard Explains Why Staff E-Mails Were Searched



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/WE7vhw




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Education 
Harvard Explains Why Staff E-Mails Were Searched

By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA and JESS BIDGOODMARCH 11, 2013


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



CAMBRIDGE, Mass. — Harvard and its president on Monday made their first public comments on the university’s searching of staff members’ e-mail accounts, and offered a qualified apology for keeping the searches secret from most of the employees involved.







The episode has angered faculty members and refocused attention on Harvard’s largest cheating scandal in memory, which involved a take-home final exam in a government class last spring. After an investigation, about 70 students were forced to take a leave of absence.In September, when confidential information about cheating cases appeared in news reports, administrators ordered searches of the e-mail accounts of 16 resident deans, to find the source of the leaks. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    





Harvard E-Mail Search Stuns Faculty MembersMARCH 10, 2013







In an online statement posted Monday morning, university officials acknowledged the searches and explained their reasoning. The statement eased the concerns of some faculty members but did not alleviate them completely, and professors said they expected that e-mail privacy would be the topic of a full-throated discussion at the next faculty meeting, in early April.
Photo






Drew Gilpin Faust, the president of Harvard University.

Credit
            Josh Reynolds for The Boston Globe        


In her first comment on the matter, Harvard’s president, Drew Gilpin Faust, said that she did not know about the searches at the time, but that having been apprised, “I feel very comfortable that great care was taken to safeguard the privacy of all concerned.”Faculty responses revealed a gap between expectations in academia, where privacy is often seen as integral to academic freedom, and the corporate world, in which employees are often told to assume that workplace e-mails are not private. Some professors wondered aloud whether they had been naïve to think that things would be different at a university, and said they were forced to re-examine assumptions about confidentiality.“It’s disturbing because I don’t know what it means about whether they could look at my own e-mail,” said Oliver Hart, an economics professor. “We need to have a discussion and a better understanding of the policy.”He and other professors said the searches would prompt him to conduct more business through private e-mail accounts outside of Harvard’s reach.Most professors who agreed to discuss the matter on Monday insisted on anonymity, not wanting to run afoul of the administration. Several of them, conceding that the university had a legal right to conduct the searches, said the problem was, as one put it, that “we never thought they would — we never thought about it at all, and we probably should have.”One leak last year involved an e-mail from the university’s Administrative Board to resident deans, offering guidance on how to advise students accused of cheating. Some have questioned why such a minor breach prompted an investigation.But the statement posted Monday, attributed to Michael D. Smith, dean of the faculty of arts and sciences, and Evelynn M. Hammonds, dean of Harvard College, said administrators were more troubled by another leak, recounting closed-door discussions by the Administrative Board.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
“The disclosure of the document and nearly word-for-word disclosure of a confidential board conversation led to concerns that other information — especially student information we have a duty to protect as private — was at risk,” the deans wrote.Resident deans live among students in Harvard’s residential houses and act as student advisers, and they are also lecturers, meaning that they teach courses but are not on a tenure track to professorship. Each one generally has a personal Harvard e-mail account and one specifically for the job of resident dean.The deans’ statement on Monday emphasized that the search was conducted only of the resident dean accounts, not personal ones, and only for the subject line on each message, to determine whether the confidential e-mail had been forwarded.The search determined that one resident dean had forwarded the e-mail to two students who were accused of cheating and had sought the dean’s advice.Deans Hammonds and Smith wrote that the resident dean who had forwarded the messages did so in good faith and was not punished. The statement did not say whether administrators determined how the e-mail found its way to the news media, or who was responsible for the other leak, of the Administrative Board’s deliberations.That resident dean and one other were told about the e-mail searches shortly after they took place, administrators said, but the other 14 resident deans were not told until last week, after The Boston Globe inquired about the matter.They were not told to protect “the privacy of the resident dean who had made an inadvertent error,” Deans Hammonds and Smith wrote. “We understand that others may see the situation differently, and we apologize if any resident deans feel our communication at the conclusion of the investigation was insufficient.”On his blog, Michael Mitzenmacher, a computer science professor, wrote that he was satisfied with some parts of the administration’s explanation, but “in my opinion, the administration made an error in judgment” in not telling the resident deans of the search.Wilfried Schmid, a mathematics professor, said he still wanted to know more about what happened. “I certainly get the sense that many of my colleagues will be upset, and so there will be a discussion,” he said.But he urged the faculty not to lose sight of what he considered the bigger issue, the cheating episode itself.


 Correction: March 14, 2013  
An article on Tuesday about Harvard’s explanation of why it searched staff members’ e-mail accounts misstated, in some copies and at several points, the surname of the dean of Harvard College. She is Evelynn M. Hammonds, not Hammond. 



A version of this article appears in print on March 12, 2013, on page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Harvard Explains Why Staff E-Mails Were Searched.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















