



essay -  privacy = freedom - nytimes.com






























































campaign: abtest_bar1_ft_upsell_inyt_0116 -- 282944, creative: abtest_bar1_ft_upsell_nyt_0116_ad -- 412102, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/opinion, targetedpage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/opinion, position: bar1












log in
register now
help



home page
today's paper
video
most popular



    edition: u.s. / global








search all nytimes.com










opinion





world
 
u.s.
 
n.y. / region
 
business
 
technology
 
science
 
health
 
sports
 
opinion
editorialscolumnistscontributorslettersthe public editorinternational opinion 
arts
 
style
 
travel
 
jobs
 
real estate
 
autos








essay; privacy = freedom


by william safire


published: may 21, 1998









washington— 
                    when monica lewinsky telephoned linda tripp, the white house intern had what the law calls ''a reasonable expectation of privacy'' -- a right to assume she was not being surreptitiously recorded.        

                    that means ms. tripp's secret taping was not only faithless (and in certain jurisdictions, unlawful) but profoundly unethical. she diminished her friend's personal freedom.        

                    turn now to the recording of webster hubbell's jailhouse telephone conversations with his wife. that felon had no reasonable expectation of privacy on that phone; on the contrary, a large sign in english and spanish made clear that anything the prisoner said could be recorded and used against him.        

                    we punish criminals by taking away their freedom and most of their privacy. they retain a shred, through use of an unmonitored line to consult with lawyers, but their punishment is the denial of freedom.        

                    that's why i, a privacy nut even before having been wiretapped a generation ago, had no problem with congressional revelation of the white house squeeze being put on mrs. hubbell to make sure her hushed-up husband rolled over one more time.        

                    as for hubbell's so-called exculpatory comments not released at first, they were examples of what f.b.i. agents call ''tickling the wire'' -- when someone, knowing he is overheard, tosses in self-serving statements.        

                    turn now to example no. 3: the release by the pentagon of information to a reporter showing that linda tripp did not reveal on her clearance forms that she had been arrested and released after a prank at the age of 19.        

                    although the clinton witness-intimidation brigade may have triggered the original query, i do not believe that the white house leaned on the pentagon to confirm the reporter's story. ken bacon, the defense official responsible, tells me ''i made a mistake, given the privacy act, and should have taken it to the lawyers.''        

                    but a wrong was done. defense secretary william cohen ordered his inspector general to investigate. those responsible should be reprimanded, the victim should receive a public apology, and cohen should make it clear that no such leakage  will be tolerated on his watch.        

                    multiply that intrusion by 900 and you have filegate. that unprecedented raid on f.b.i. files by the former tavern bouncer hired by the clintons was ostensibly to ''vet'' personnel, but more likely it snooped into the private lives of former white house employees.        

                    when the log of requisitions for these f.b.i. dossiers on republicans showed six months torn out, the ensuing uproar caused the conflicted attorney general to refer this wholesale invasion of privacy to independent counsel ken starr.        

                    his investigation has languished for two years, even as we have seen clinton private operatives digging up dirt from non-f.b.i. sources. but no indictments or exonerations have come from starr. all those whose reasonable expectation of privacy was denied see dereliction of prosecutorial duty.        

                    carry this reasonable expectation into your own home. suppose you use your credit card to pay for a porno flick; you don't expect this to make you a target for late-night calls from every smut peddler who buys your number from the plastic list. or suppose you are surfing the internet; you don't want your curiosity monitored by a cyberstalker who makes you a target of telemarketers.        

                    the g.o.p. is missing the boat on this libertarian concern; for a year the house telecommunications chairman, billy tauzin, has been blocking the ranking democrat ed markey's bill to give net users the ability to detect and block cyberstalking.        

                    vice president al gore sees the appeal in protecting the internet generation from unwanted commercial snooping, and is calling a low-peak ''privacy summit.'' but gore's in a policy bind: if he supports encryption, which is the name of the electronic privacy game, he infuriates f.b.i. datatappers. so he waffles.        

                    we must demand that government set the example in snoopery restraint. if americans allow ourselves to lose our expectation of privacy, we would then lose our privacy itself -- and the essence of our personal freedom is that right to be let alone.        








 














 



















 

            inside nytimes.com        








health » 



too hot to handle





arts » 



the harmony of liberty




opinion »
should beach privatization be allowed?
room for debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





sports » 



a woman’s leadership may steady murray










opinion » 



menagerie: streaming eagles





u.s. »




curlers’ aim: sweep to a win over the heat





television » 



the cold war brews anew in prime time





book review » 



command performance





opinion » 



op-ed: fooling mexican fans





world »




reading, writing and allegations




opinion »
op-ed: elite, separate, unequal
new york city’s top public schools must become more diverse.





business »




vice has media giants salivating












© 2016 the new york times company
site map
privacy
your ad choices
advertise
terms of sale
terms of service
work with us
rss
help
contact us
site feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/opinion, targetedpage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/opinion, position: inv1
