
  




European Regulators to Start Inquiry Into eBay Data Breach - The New York Times



























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|European Regulators to Start Inquiry Into eBay Data Breach



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1mey8mo




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
European Regulators to Start Inquiry Into eBay Data Breach

By MARK SCOTTMAY 23, 2014



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








LONDON — The fallout from the data breach at eBay has reached Europe.Next week, regulators here will begin an investigation into the online market after hackers gained access to the personal data of 145 million customers, said Gérard Lommel, president of the Luxembourg data protection authority, which oversees eBay on the Continent because the company’s European headquarters are based in the small country.Mr. Lommel said he met with eBay officials on Wednesday to discuss the data breach, and would begin the inquiry after discussing the issue with his colleagues on Monday.“We have a big problem here,” Mr. Lommel said in an interview. “I’m a little bit astonished that no criminal use of the information has yet been detected.”The investigation, which could take several months, will involve cooperation with other European regulators, as well as the potential involvement of United States authorities. Officials in Illinois, Florida and Connecticut are also looking into eBay’s data breach. And in New York, the attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, has asked that the company provide free credit monitoring to those whose data was compromised.The Federal Bureau of Investigation office in San Francisco is investigating the breach. The F.B.I.'s spokesman, Peter D. Lee, said the agency hoped to bring the criminals responsible to “swift justice” but offered no timeline for arrests.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Mr. Lommel said he had yet to contact his counterparts in the United States, though he had informed other European data authorities about his plans earlier this week.“I expect that it will be a large exercise,” he said. “The investigation itself could take months, but the first few weeks will be the most decisive.”While Luxembourg’s data regulator does not have the authority to fine companies for privacy failures, the European watchdog can force them to change their internal procedures to correct any data protection flaws.It also can refer cases to the country’s public prosecutor, who can bring criminal charges against companies or individuals. Those penalties could include fines totaling 125,000 euros, or $170,000, and jail terms of up to one year. Mr. Lommel added that the case against eBay would be unlikely to lead to prison sentences.“We have relationships with and proactively contacted a number of state, federal and international regulators and law enforcement agencies,” eBay said in a statement on Friday. “We are fully cooperating with them on all aspects of this incident.”Earlier this month, the European Union’s highest court ruled against Google in a decision that allowed local citizens — and possibly those outside the union — to ask the search engine to take down links to information about themselves online.On Friday, Mr. Lommel of the Luxembourg data regulator said the growth of online data would most likely lead to more privacy breaches, as individuals increasingly upload personal information onto services run by some of the world’s largest tech companies.“We will have more and more nightmares,” he said. “It’s impossible to know where this will end.”

Nicole Perlroth contributed reporting from San Francisco.


Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










EBay Urges New Passwords After Breach
MAY 21, 2014
























Related Coverage







EBay Urges New Passwords After Breach
MAY 21, 2014













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















