
  




In Williamsburg, Falafel in the Tel Aviv Style - The New York Times












































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Food|In Williamsburg, Falafel in the Tel Aviv Style



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1NMuBGx




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Food 
In Williamsburg, Falafel in the Tel Aviv Style



Front Burner 
By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
FEB. 1, 2016



Inside








Photo






Shimon Maman

Credit
            Caitlin Ochs for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



To Savor: In the Tel Aviv Style, Falafel to GoFor the new streetside kiosk attached to the 12 Chairs Cafe in Brooklyn, the chef, Shimon Maman, and his partners looked to Tel Aviv’s falafel stands. Pita bread comes with traditional stuffings like sabich (eggplant), kebabs, shakshuka and falafel, the last with fried potatoes in the sandwich. Mr. Maman said his fillings had “more finesse” than is typical in Israel. The stand is open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.; there is covered seating as well as takeout: The Kiosk, 12 Chairs Cafe, 342 Wythe Avenue (South Second Street), South Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 347-227-7077, 12chairscafe.com.
Photo







Credit
            Tony Cenicola/The New York Times        


To Serve: Hot Dogs Go Bobbing in Brine




Front Burner








                                Vincent Price’s Cookbook Lives On            








                                Chocolate by the Book            








                                Supercrown Pairs Coffee With Everything in Bushwick            








                                A Lonely Planet Wine Guide Lets You Drink It All In            








                                Crisp Plantains for Party Dipping            






See More »



Pickled hot dogs are a new specialty at Jake Dickson’s butcher shop. Slice them in chunks, skewer on toothpicks and serve with mustard for something that flirts with sharpness alongside beer: Pickled Dogs, $18 for a quart, $30 for a half-gallon, Dickson’s Farmstand Meats, Chelsea Market, 75 Ninth Avenue (West 15th Street), 212-242-2630, dicksonsfarmstand.com.To Share: These Baguettes Show Their Love
Photo







Credit
            Dan Neville/The New York Times        


There’s nothing subtle about the heart-shaped baguettes that Kamel Saci, the baker at Il Buco Alimentari, will sell on Feb. 13 and 14. The choices are sprouted grain, savory Parmesan and an earthy double chocolate called Mon Cheri that’s sweetly fruity with amaretto-soaked cherries. You can order them in advance: Heart-shaped baguettes, $5 each, Il Buco Alimentari e Vineria, 53 Great Jones Street (Bowery), 212-837-2622, ilbucovineria.com.
Photo







Credit
            Caitlin Ochs for The New York Times        


To Munch: Not the Usual Super Bowl SnackInstead of the inevitable chicken wings, treat your Super Bowl guests to crackling chicken skin snacks. Ken Oringer, a chef and owner of Toro on the edge of Chelsea, bakes the skin until crisp and spreads it with Spanish pimento cheese for little bocadillo sandwiches. To make them at home, place pieces of chicken skin seasoned with salt and pepper atop a layer of parchment on a rimmed sheet pan, cover with more parchment and weigh down with another pan. Bake for about 50 minutes at 325 degrees until golden brown. Drain on paper towels and cut into two-inch squares. I used the skin from eight chicken thighs, which gave me 32 nicely uniform pieces of crisp skin, and froze the thighs for future use. I set up two pans on two oven racks, reversing them halfway through the baking. The skin shrinks during the baking. I left my sandwiches open-faced, which Mr. Oringer endorsed, and topped some with blue cheese softened with mayonnaise garnished with a morsel of celery as a nod to those wings.
Photo







Credit
            Tony Cenicola/The New York Times        



Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
To Observe: Chocolates for the Lunar New YearA wooden box stamped with a good-luck seal, secured with a ribbon and packed with Asian-flavored bonbons is a festive token for the Lunar New Year (Year of the Monkey) starting Monday. The chocolatier Michael Klug uses ingredients like lemongrass, mango, Lapsang souchong tea, plum wine and five-spice: $24 to $75 through Feb. 18, L.A. Burdick Handmade Chocolates, 5 East 20th Street and elsewhere, 800-229-2419, burdickchocolate.com.To View: The Artistic Side of Sausages
Photo






“At the Carpet Shop,” a work from Peter Fischli and David Weiss’s “Sausage Series.”

Credit
            Peter Fischli and David Weiss        


Sausages depicted as fashion, modes of transport and rugs (“At the Carpet Shop”) are among the whimsical pieces from “Sausage Series” (1979), by the Swiss artists Peter Fischli and David Weiss, which will be on display at the Guggenheim starting Friday. Alejandro Cortez, the chef at the Wright, the museum’s restaurant, will add a sausage dish to the brunch menu starting Friday and for lunch on Monday: “Peter Fischli David Weiss: How to Work Better,” Friday to April 27, Guggenheim Museum, 212-423-3500, Guggenheim.org.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















