
  




F.B.I. Chief Presses Congress to Act on Data Privacy - The New York Times




















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|F.B.I. Chief Presses Congress to Act on Data Privacy



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QAEhFH




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
F.B.I. Chief Presses Congress to Act on Data Privacy

By ERIC LICHTBLAU and NICK WINGFIELDFEB. 25, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






James B. Comey Jr., the F.B.I. director, spoke during a House Select Intelligence Committee hearing on Thursday.

Credit
            Jim Lo Scalzo/European Pressphoto Agency        


WASHINGTON — The head of the F.B.I., battling Apple over unlocking an iPhone used by one of the killers in a December rampage in San Bernardino, Calif., called on Congress on Thursday to settle the question of when law enforcement officials should get access to citizens’ private data.“The larger question isn’t going to be answered in the courts, and shouldn’t be,” the F.B.I. chief, James B. Comey Jr., told lawmakers at a hearing of the House Intelligence Committee. “It’s really about who do we want to be as a country and how do we want to govern ourselves.”Apple has argued that granting the government’s request to build software to unlock the phone at issue would compromise the security of all the devices used by its hundreds of millions of customers. But Mr. Comey said the case was “unlikely to be a trailblazer,” because encryption technology is changing so quickly.“The San Bernardino litigation is not about us trying to send a message or establish some precedent,” Mr. Comey said. “It really isn’t. It’s about trying to be competent in investigating something that is an active investigation.”At the same time, he acknowledged that the question of whether a company like Apple should have to unlock its encryption technology “is the hardest question I’ve seen in government, and it’s going to require negotiation and conversation.”
Video

Is Apple Right in Defying the F.B.I.?


Apple has said it will not comply with a federal court order to unlock the iPhone of one of the San Bernardino attackers. Commenters online weigh privacy versus security in an age of terrorism.

                    By EMMA COTT and BEN LAFFIN on                                                                Publish Date February 18, 2016.
                                    

                                            Photo by Eduardo Munoz/Reuters.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed










He said that Congress was in the best position to establish clearer lines on such issues. “It is this body that should be determining the answers,” he said.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

But answers from Congress appear doubtful. Several lawmakers who questioned Mr. Comey acknowledged that they were uncertain where the line should be drawn between consumer privacy and the needs of law enforcement. Other lawmakers said that, with Congress gridlocked on far less complicated issues, a resolution seemed highly unlikely.Officials in the Obama administration drafted legislation beginning in 2011 that sought to address some of the encryption issues now being raised. But their proposals were effectively shelved in 2013 when leaks by Edward J. Snowden ignited public concerns about government spying.The hearing on Thursday was intended to discuss “global threats” with intelligence leaders government-wide but was instead dominated by questions for Mr. Comey about the Apple dispute.In the San Bernardino case, the F.B.I. is trying to get Apple’s technical assistance in unlocking the phone used by Syed Rizwan Farook, who along with his wife killed 14 people in December. A judge in California last week ordered Apple to cooperate, but the company has resisted.Apple on Thursday filed a formal brief  in opposition to the order, arguing that the Justice Department and the F.B.I. were overreaching with their demands.


            Related Coverage        









Microsoft will file a brief backing Apple next week in a federal court in California, the company’s president and chief legal officer, Brad Smith, said on Thursday.Microsoft was one of the few prominent technology companies that had not yet clearly backed Apple in the case. Executives from Facebook, Google and Twitter have all backed Apple in the case. But Microsoft had previously supported Apple only indirectly through a statement issued by an industry coalition.A report by The Financial Times, suggesting that Bill Gates, a Microsoft founder, had sided with the government in the case, caused a stir this week. Mr. Gates, who is no longer an executive at the company, later said the newspaper had mischaracterized his position in the interview.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Mr. Smith, the Microsoft official, was speaking Thursday at a congressional hearing tangentially related to the Apple case, one focused on international legal conflicts related to data flowing across borders. Microsoft is fighting cases in courts in the United States and Brazil related to law enforcement demands for data held overseas and is pressing Congress to modernize laws to reduce these conflicts.Apple’s chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, has suggested that Congress is a better place than a court to work out the conflicts arising in its case, and Mr. Smith said that “we agree wholeheartedly with Apple that the right place to bring this discussion is here to the House of Representatives and the Senate so people elected by the people can make these decisions.”In the Apple case, the government is relying on the All Writs Act, passed in its current form in 1911. To emphasize his point that law enforcement authorities are relying on outdated laws, Mr. Smith placed on a table an antique adding machine he had purchased on eBay.“The leading computing device from that era is right in front of me,” he said.

Eric Lichtblau reported from Washington and Nick Wingfield from San Francisco.
Follow The New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.


Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










Apple Faces U.S. Demand to Unlock 9 More iPhones
FEB. 23, 2016













Narrow Focus May Aid F.B.I. in Apple Case
FEB. 22, 2016













Apple Fights Order to Unlock San Bernardino Gunman’s iPhone
FEB. 17, 2016













Apple Sees Value in Its Stand to Protect Security
FEB. 20, 2016
























Related Coverage







Apple Faces U.S. Demand to Unlock 9 More iPhones
FEB. 23, 2016













Narrow Focus May Aid F.B.I. in Apple Case
FEB. 22, 2016













Apple Fights Order to Unlock San Bernardino Gunman’s iPhone
FEB. 17, 2016













Apple Sees Value in Its Stand to Protect Security
FEB. 20, 2016













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















