
  




Few Foreign Visitors to U.S. Overstay Visa, Federal Report Says - The New York Times







































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Few Foreign Visitors to U.S. Overstay Visa, Federal Report Says



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1nmRFH5




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Few Foreign Visitors to U.S. Overstay Visa, Federal Report Says

By RON NIXONJAN. 20, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON —  A little more than 1 percent of the nearly 45 million foreign visitors to the United States overstayed their work or tourist visas last year, according to a long-awaited report by the Department of Homeland Security.The report, released late Tuesday, comes as Congress is examining the visa system in the United States after the mass shooting in San Bernardino, Calif., last month that left 14 people dead and 22 wounded. Tashfeen Malik, one of the attackers, was granted entry to the United States under a K-1 visa, also known as a fiancé visa. Her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, was an American-born citizen. Both died in a shootout with the police.The attack is believed to have been inspired by the Islamic State terrorist group. Lawmakers fear that terrorists could exploit weaknesses in the visa program, including the program’s inability to accurately track people who overstay, to carry out attacks on American soil.The report, which lawmakers have been demanding for nearly 20 years, shows that the number of overstays — about a half-million in all — was slightly higher for citizens of countries where a visa is required to visit the United States than for those from countries like France and Germany who are exempt under a visa-waiver program. About 38 countries, mostly in Europe, participate in the visa-waiver program, which allows their citizens to visit the United States without a visa on trips of 90 days or less.Officials acknowledge that the report is imprecise. It covers visitors who arrived in the United States by plane or ship, but not those who entered by land.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The report, mandated by Congress in 1997, is the first to conclusively examine a population that immigration officials know little about. Lawmakers have pressed Homeland Security officials for information on those who overstay their visas, but efforts to collect the information have dragged because of the difficulty in collecting and analyzing data.In early 2013, Janet Napolitano, then the secretary of Homeland Security, told Congress that the agency planned to issue a report on overstay rates by December 2013. The agency did not follow through because officials said they did not have confidence in the quality of the data.Now that the first report on overstays has been completed, it will be done annually, Homeland Security officials said.Many members of Congress and some law enforcement officials worry about misuse of the visa program because the United States does not routinely collect biometric information — fingerprints, iris scans and photographs that can be used for facial recognition — of people leaving the country. Nearly three dozen countries collect such information.Two of the Sept. 11 hijackers, Satam al-Suqami and Nawaf al-Hazmi, overstayed their visas.Experts like Theresa Cardinal Brown, the director of immigration policy at the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington, who served in the Homeland Security Department under President George W. Bush, said that although the United States had traditionally collected lots of information about people arriving in the country, it had focused less on those who leave. And because information about exits is not collected in a systematic way, it is difficult for customs officials to compare it to entry data to see if a visitor left the country before their visa expired.Nearly 20 years ago, Congress passed a law requiring the federal government to develop a system to track people who overstayed their visas. After the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, an entry and exit tracking system was seen as a vital national security and counterterrorism tool, and the 9/11 Commission recommended that the Department of Homeland Security complete a system “as soon as possible.”Since then, the federal government has spent millions of dollars on the effort, yet until the release of the report Tuesday, officials could only roughly estimate the number of people in the United States illegally after overstaying visas.Officials with Homeland Security told members of the Senate Judiciary Committee during a hearing on Wednesday that the department was testing new technologies that would allow United States Customs and Border Protection to collect exit information from foreign travelers. The technologies include a facial recognition program that began at Kennedy International Airport on Tuesday.

Follow the New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2016, on page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: Few Visitors to the U.S. Violate Visas, a Report Says.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










U.S. Doesn’t Know How Many Foreign Visitors Overstay Visas
JAN. 1, 2016












ON WASHINGTON 

Travel Industry in Motion as Visas Are Reviewed
DEC. 7, 2015
























Related Coverage







U.S. Doesn’t Know How Many Foreign Visitors Overstay Visas
JAN. 1, 2016












ON WASHINGTON 

Travel Industry in Motion as Visas Are Reviewed
DEC. 7, 2015













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















