



FORUM IN NEW YORK -  COMPUTER SECURITY -  Protesters and Police Plot and Thwart Online - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










N.Y. / Region





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








FORUM IN NEW YORK: COMPUTER SECURITY
FORUM IN NEW YORK: COMPUTER SECURITY; Protesters and Police Plot and Thwart Online


By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM


Published: February 1, 2002









                    As the police and federal agents and scores of protest groups prepare for disruptive demonstrations outside the World Economic Forum, both sides are taking up positions on another potential battleground -- the Internet.        

                    Demonstrators are using the Internet to organize protests and publicize their causes. The New York Police Department is using it to glean information about groups that it says may pose a threat. And federal authorities say they fear that some protesters will use it as a tool of disruption or destruction.        

                    Representatives of several of the larger umbrella groups planning protests dismissed the idea of ''cyberattacks'' and said they had none planned. But federal officials said they had ''significant concerns'' and, along with forum officials, were taking precautions.        

                    The Secret Service is working with the Police Department on security preparations. So far, the specter of tumult in the streets -- and the kind of vandalism and violence that marred similar economic gatherings in recent years -- has driven concern about the protests. But increasingly, the potential havoc wrought by a computer attack has drawn the attention of federal authorities.        

                    ''We're living in a world where a keyboard has the potential to do enormous damage,'' said Bruce A. Townsend, the special agent in charge of the Secret Service's financial crimes division in Washington. He would not say whether there was a threat specific to the forum. But he said the agency's New York Electronic Crimes Task Force, a joint effort with the Police Department and nearly 50 other state, local and federal law enforcement agencies, had painstakingly reviewed computer systems associated with the meeting to make them less vulnerable.        

                    Cyberattacks on the World Economic Forum are not without precedent. Last year, a computer hacker gained access to the forum's database and obtained credit card and other information on hundreds of participants who attended the group's regional meetings in 2000.        

                    At the other end of the spectrum is a group planning a ''cyberaction'' for this year's meeting. The group, called the Electronic Disturbance Theater, is using its Web site to call for a ''Net strike'' to ''disturb the electronic infrastructure of the W.E.F.'s corporate membership.'' The group wants large numbers of people to swamp the Web sites of the forum and its corporate members.        

                    But the group's co-founder, Ricardo Dominguez, drew a distinction between his efforts, which he said were aimed at ''social disturbance'' rather than disruption or destruction, and those of anyone trying to break into or destroy computer systems.        

                    ''It's a very American thing to do,'' he said, comparing the action to sitting down in the middle of a street in an act of civil disobedience.        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Inv1
