
  




Frank Zappa’s House Can Be Yours for $9 Million - The New York Times

















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Media|Frank Zappa’s House Can Be Yours for $9 Million



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1R3OFpF




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Media 
Frank Zappa’s House Can Be Yours for $9 Million

By BEN SISARIOMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






The proof sheet from the photo shoot for Frank Zappa’s 1967 album Lumpy Gravy. His selections are in red wax pencil.

Credit
            Zappa Family Trust        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



For decades, Gail Zappa, the widow of the iconoclastic rock musician Frank Zappa, was known as a fierce guardian of her husband’s business empire. But before she died last year at 70, Mrs. Zappa granted the filmmaker Alex Winter rare access to her husband’s “vault,” the enormous media archive kept in the basement of the Zappa family home in Los Angeles, as part of Mr. Winter’s latest project: a documentary about Zappa’s life and music.







“We’re private people, but we want the story to be told,” Ahmet Zappa, one of Frank’s four children and a trustee of the Zappa Family Trust, said in a statement about the film.




Diversions
A break from the day’s grimmer news.







                                Review: In ‘Scary Old Sex,’ Arlene Heyman Mines the Details            
MAR 8








                                Coming Home to Pot Roast            
MAR 8








                                Seven Ways of Seeing Beauty in Design            
MAR 8








                                In Portland, Oregon, a Warm Embrace of Tango            
MAR 8








                                On an Italian Island, How He Met My Mother            
MAR 8






See More »



On Tuesday, Mr. Winter, who has made well-received documentaries like “Downloaded,” about the Napster phenomenon — but who may still be best known to a generation of moviegoers as Bill from the 1989 comedy “Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventure” — will introduce a Kickstarter campaign to help finance the Zappa movie and also preserve the archive. For $9 million, one generous supporter could own the Zappa house (minus its contents, including the vault).Mr. Winter spoke this week about the film and the archive. Here are edited excerpts from that conversation.Q. How did this film and the archive project come about?A. I was coming off my previous doc, “Deep Web,” and starting to put the next movie together. One thing that kept coming up was that there had never been a definitive Frank Zappa documentary. I was intent on not making a musical biopic, but making something that’s more like a novelistic examination of this man, something that would dig into the cultural aspects of him, the political aspects. That’s what we pitched to Gail, and she loved it.Gail granted us, for the first time, access to the Zappa family vault, which is literally a vault — it’s a giant, floor-to-ceiling space under their house in the Hollywood Hills that is filled with 40-odd years of unseen and unheard material. It’s stuff that he wrote, family stuff, art, music and film. Some of it had been preserved by the family, but it’s not been thoroughly archived.How bad a shape is the archive in?My guess is that the bulk of it is probably pretty good. It’s also deteriorating, and possibly some of it is gone. Certain types of media are more frail than others — the reel-to-reel audio stuff, that’s a very flimsy and fragile material. There is a lot of digital stuff, but some of it is in formats that do not exist anymore.It’s the way the whole house is. I was walking around with some of the family members and they were like, “You know, it’s not just the vault.” They started opening cabinets, and there’s media everywhere — three-quarter-inch tape, cassettes, DAT masters. It just goes on and on.That led to the Kickstarter. Frankly, it was just terrifying to see that there and think this is all of Frank’s life, and it’s going to be gone.How was it dealing with Gail Zappa? In a statement you are very diplomatic in calling her “notoriously discerning.”
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
I’m a Gail fan. Does that mean I agree with her on everything? I’m the guy who made the Napster movie. But she was not an unreasonable person at all, and that’s what gets misconstrued. You have to remember the times that she grew up through. Specifically, she ran the Zappa business. She was navigating a very complex and treacherous landscape, which is what the music industry is, and she had learned to be fiercely controlling and independent in order to keep the thing alive.Where did the idea of selling the Zappa house for $9 million come from?It’s a bargain! In the Zappa family, the kids are all grown up and have their own lives. With Gail no longer here, there’s nobody there [at the house]. So we proposed to them that if this thing is going to get sold anyway, why don’t we make it part of our campaign? For the real giant Zappa fans out there, they’re going to get the house that has the Utility Muffin Research Kitchen, the house that has the vault in it and all this incredible history. They were there from 1968 on.What happens to the $9 million if somebody buys the house? Does it go into the making if the film, or does that money go to the Zappa family?It goes to both. We would give big portion of that to the family for the value of the house, and then do everything we need to do toward making the archive safe and making the movie we want to make. This would allow us to start the movie immediately.What do you want the film to portray?Frank is someone that a large part of the population absolutely adores, and probably a healthy part of the population doesn’t like at all. That’s really compelling to me. There are so many paradoxical aspects to him that represent the paradoxical nature of that period of history. On the macro side, I love what that allows me to do as a documentarian. But on the micro side, I’m just really fascinated by who he was.How will what’s in the vault help you make the movie?Because a lot of it is personal. It’s not just outtakes from records. He would record video around the house. If NBC Radio came over to get one sound bite, he would set up a video camera and record the entire interview. No one has ever seen that stuff. It’s all down in the basement, and there is tons of it.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















