



THE 2004 CAMPAIGN -  SECURITY -  Little Evidence of Qaeda Plot Timed to Vote - NYTimes.com












































 

















Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: nyt2016_bar1_digi_q1_blitz_4YWHL -- 283286, creative: 1_CRS-9349_bar1_q1_blitz_4YWHL -- 412733, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com















World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: SECURITY; Little Evidence of Qaeda Plot Timed to Vote


By DAVID JOHNSTON and DON VAN NATTA Jr.; David Johnston reported from Washington for this article, and Don Van Natta Jr., from London. William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting from New York, and Christopher Drew and Eric Lipton from Washington.


Published: October 24, 2004




                    In early July, the Homeland security secretary, Tom Ridge, declared that credible intelligence showed Al Qaeda intended to launch a ''large-scale attack'' inside the United States to ''disrupt our democratic process.'' More than three months later, counterterrorism officials in the United States and overseas say they are still concerned, but have uncovered little specific evidence of a plot timed to the election.        

                    Extensive investigations into the most significant reported threat unearthed this year, a years-old Qaeda surveillance operation thought to be aimed at five financial institutions in New York, Newark and Washington, has found no sign that it had evolved into concrete operations.        

                    There are now doubts among intelligence officials that a group of eight men arrested in Britain last August planned to strike in the United States around the presidential election, as suspected at first.        

                    And an informant on Al Qaeda, who told authorities last spring that there might be an election-season attack in the United States, has recently been discredited, the officials said.        

                    In a series of interviews here and abroad over the last two months, some intelligence and counterterrorism officials say that even after the political conventions passed without incident, they still fear an undetected plot, either before or after the Nov. 2 election. Others say they suspect a plan might have existed and been disrupted or postponed.        

                    ''We've undertaken a bunch of actions,'' said one senior administration official. ''We don't know whether we've disrupted them or not. We continue to consider it a very serious threat and we continue to be at a higher operational level. If Nov. 2 comes and goes and nothing happens, I am not going to sleep any better at night.''        

                    But there are also those, especially abroad, who question the information and analyses relied on by Mr. Ridge and other senior Bush administration officials in their repeated public warnings of an election-year terror threat.        

                    ''I've seen some analytical pieces from the bureau and the agency,'' said one senior American counterintelligence official, referring to election threat reports by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency. ''On a scale of one to a hundred, I'd give it about a two.''        

                    But three top national security officials said that the intelligence seemed persuasive, and was backed up by specific and credible sources providing a reasonable basis for warnings. Those sources, they said, included informants with an inside knowledge of Al Qaeda, captured Qaeda operatives, intercepted communications and material taken from computer hard drives and discs.        

                    In May, July and August, law enforcement and homeland security officials made high-profile announcements that traced a trajectory of rising alarm about a possible attack timed to the election season. But an intense international search for more clues has left investigators empty-handed.        

                    Each of the nearly two dozen American and European officials interviewed for this article said that Al Qaeda remained an extremely serious threat. All of the officials refused to be named because they were discussing classified information. Each is directly involved in national security or counterterrorism and is regularly briefed on terrorism developments.        

                    To varying degrees, these counterterrorism officials expressed doubts that Al Qaeda has had a fixed target date related to the elections. Several of them said that past terror attacks by Al Qaeda suggested that the bin Laden network typically struck when its chances of success appeared greatest, with little regard to the political calendar.        

                    In a recent interview, Mr. Ridge held to this view. ''I would say that, at least from Homeland Security's perspective, a date or a time line is important, but they operate I think, at the end of the day, whenever they're ready,'' he said. ''Whenever they feel they can execute successfully an attack, they'll do it. If they can do it before the election, they'll do it. Will they accelerate it because the election is here? I don't know. They seem to have indicated that they will or they'd like to, whether they have the capacity to do it or not.''        

                    In Europe and the Middle East, senior counterterrorism officials say they have been perplexed and uneasy about the American officials' warnings. They say that last summer they had seen no evidence of an election-year threat in their own intelligence reports.        

                    In interviews, these officials, based in eight countries, including Britain, France, Spain, Germany, Italy and Jordan, said they had not seen a single solid piece of intelligence, like a statement of a Qaeda operative or an intercepted phone conversation, to back up the warnings.        

                    ''I am aware of no intelligence, nothing that shows there will be an attack before the U.S. presidential election,'' said a senior European-based counterterrorism official.        

                    A senior administration official said that not all intelligence is shared with every ally. American officials said they are determined not to allow any disruption of the campaign and election, but they were also concerned not to be caught off guard.        

                    American intelligence officials said that their thinking changed after the March 11 Madrid commuter train bombings, which occurred four days before a national election in Spain.        







1

2


Next Page >




 














 



















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Inv1
