
  




United Continental Shareholders Turn to Bethune to Lead Revolt - The New York Times






































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





DealBook|United Continental Shareholders Turn to Bethune to Lead Revolt



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1SwNfti




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement











 



Supported by




United Continental Shareholders Turn to Bethune to Lead Revolt

By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and JAD MOUAWADMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Continue reading the main story
Video

Bethune on United Continental Battle


Gordon Bethune, the former chief of Continental Airlines, said that the current board of United Continental has a “country club atmosphere.”

                    By CNBC on                                                                Publish Date March 8, 2016.
                                    

                                            Photo by CNBC.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed












Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



United Continental is facing an insurrection among its shareholders — led by the well-regarded former chief executive of Continental Airlines, Gordon M. Bethune.







Mr. Bethune is one of six director candidates put forward on Tuesday by two hedge funds, Altimeter Capital Management and PAR Capital Management, which together own about 7.1 percent of United’s shares.The decision by the activist hedge funds to raise a public challenge to the airline’s board comes after United’s announcement on Monday to add four independent directors.The contest comes at an awkward time for United, which appointed a new chief executive in September after the surprise dismissal of Jeff Smisek during a corruption investigation involving officials at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. It also comes just days after the airline said that the new chief executive, Oscar Munoz, would return to work full time on March 14 after undergoing heart transplant surgery in January. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









The Rail Executive United Airlines Tapped to Lift Its FortunesSEPT. 9, 2015











DealBook: As Oil Prices Fall, Airfares Still Stay HighMARCH 23, 2015











United and Continental Agree to $3 Billion MergerMAY 2, 2010







In a statement, Altimeter and PAR said that they chose to begin their proxy fight after weeks of discussions with United’s board. The hedge funds also described the airline’s board expansion as “a knee-jerk response to the stockholders’ efforts.”
Photo






United had the worst customer satisfaction of any North American airline, with the exception of the low-cost carrier Frontier, according to J.D. Power’s 2015 ranking.

Credit
            Justin Sullivan/Getty Images        


The activists argue that United has badly underperformed over the last five years, despite its name recognition and size, which the hedge funds argue arises from its board.“We have no more confidence that you will act responsibly in the future (even with yesterday’s announcement) than we have evidence that you have done so in the past,” Brad Gerstner, the chief executive of Altimeter, and Paul A. Reeder, the chief executive of PAR, wrote in a public letter to United’s board.Henry L. Meyer III, the airline’s nonexecutive chairman, replied in a statement, “We are deeply disappointed that after United attempted to engage in a constructive, good-faith dialogue with PAR and Altimeter, repeatedly communicated our willingness to make meaningful changes in our board, publicly announced our intention to name four new independent directors with deep relevant experience and named three of them yesterday, PAR and Altimeter have unilaterally taken this hostile action with no concern that a proxy fight could distract the company from executing on Oscar’s strategic plan.”In an interview, Mr. Bethune said he had agreed to join the slate to become nonexecutive chairman for two years to help the board set clear goals and motivate employees. He said that before United’s latest nominations, the company’s board lacked directors with experience running an airline.Mr. Bethune wrote a book called “From Worst to First,” about his experience turning around Continental Airlines in the 1990s. He said United needed to perform better than its three main rivals – Delta, American and Southwest.“They need to beat the competition,” he said. “If you’re in a horse race and you’re in fourth place, you’re not winning.”
Continue reading the main story















“I am willing to help,” he said. “And I do know the front end from the back of an airplane, and that would be a novel experience for the board.”
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Mr. Bethune, who is 74, said his age would not be an issue despite the company’s mandatory retirement limit of 75. The board, he said, could simply extend the limit for one year to allow him to stay on.Mr. Bethune, who is serving on the boards of three companies — Honeywell, Prudential and Sprint — plans to retire from two this year but will remain on the board of Sprint. When he ran Continental, he appointed both Mr. Munoz and Mr. Meyer, the current chairman of United, to the airline’s board.“I don’t need this,” he said, and added that United employees were demoralized and he wanted to help. “There is nothing wrong with the people. They just need leadership. And they don’t have it.”Mr. Munoz, who has no previous airline management experience before United, came from the railroad operator the CSX Corporation, where he was chief operating officer. Mr. Munoz had been a director at United and before that at Continental, where he was named by Mr. Bethune.But shortly after his appointment, Mr. Munoz suffered a heart attack and was hospitalized for a heart transplant.The airline can count on the support of its flight attendants, which released a statement on Tuesday morning strongly backing the current leadership, and particularly Mr. Munoz. The union, the Association of Flight Attendants, which represents 24,000 employees, said the shareholders were “creating a distraction at just the wrong time.”In midday trading, shares of United were down 0.8 percent.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















