
  




Hacker Group Lashes Out Against Informant - The New York Times






























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





N.Y. / Region|Hacker Group Lashes Out Against Informant



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1gsdBeK




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



N.Y. / Region 
Hacker Group Lashes Out Against Informant

By NICOLE PERLROTHMAY 24, 2014



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








SAN FRANCISCO —  While Hector Xavier Monsegur awaited sentencing for charges that could bring him a lengthy prison term, his former partners in the hacker collective Anonymous and the group’s sympathizers expressed their feelings online.On Twitter, where Mr. Monsegur first gained notoriety as a hacker and later as a federal informant, many denounced him as a “traitor” and a “snitch.” Some posted T-shirts featuring a caricature of Mr. Monsegur as Tweety Bird, the cartoon canary, and asked that hackers warn one another about Mr. Monsegur’s whereabouts. Some linked to websites containing Mr. Monsegur’s Social Security number, the names of his family members and his previous address.Mr. Monsegur’s sentence, which was initially expected last year, has been repeatedly delayed, without explanation. He is scheduled to be sentenced on Tuesday in Federal District Court in Manhattan on hacking conspiracy and other charges. Prosecutors have asked the judge for leniency because of Mr. Monsegur’s “extraordinary cooperation” that they said has allowed the authorities to disrupt at least 300 cyberattacks on high-profile and international targets.According to a memorandum submitted to the judge late Friday, Mr. Monsegur has been repeatedly approached and threatened over cooperating with the government. Concerned about his safety, the memo said, the government relocated Mr. Monsegur and his family.As this latest sentencing date neared, many people online resurrected the slogan “Free Hammond,” referring to Jeremy Hammond, one of several hackers whom the authorities indicted through Mr. Monsegur’s cooperation. He is serving a 10-year prison sentence.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Mr. Monsegur’s information led to charges against several hackers, and all but one pleaded guilty. Many hackers and security researchers have accused Mr. Monsegur of entrapment. Some posted archived Twitter messages between Mr. Monsegur, whose online alias was “Sabu,” and others whom they claimed he baited into discussions about hacking domestic and foreign targets.Among those who have accused Mr. Monsegur of entrapment is Jacob Appelbaum, the privacy activist and onetime WikiLeaks volunteer. “He would encourage me to do criminal things with him — which I always refused,” Mr. Appelbaum said Saturday in a message posted on Twitter.Members of the group Anonymous posted an image featuring Mr. Monsegur and the judge overseeing his case, Judge Loretta A. Preska, in tutus with the words, “Back in the U.S.S.R. Democracy’s enemies are disguised as Bolshoi Dancers.”“We will not forgive and we will not forget until every Anon is free,” the Anonymous post read. Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










Hacker Helped Disrupt 300 Web Attacks, Prosecutors Say
MAY 24, 2014
























Related Coverage







Hacker Helped Disrupt 300 Web Attacks, Prosecutors Say
MAY 24, 2014













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















