
  




Hackers Get Employee Records at Justice and Homeland Security Depts. - The New York Times









































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Hackers Get Employee Records at Justice and Homeland Security Depts.



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1nTpxe6




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Hackers Get Employee Records at Justice and Homeland Security Depts.

By ERIC LICHTBLAUFEB. 8, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






The headquarters of the Department of Homeland Security in Washington. Officials have played down the significance of the latest computer breach.

Credit
            Susan Walsh/Associated Press        


WASHINGTON —  In the latest cyberattack targeting the federal government, an intruder gained access to information for thousands of employees at the Justice Department and the Department of Homeland Security, but officials said Monday that there was no indication that sensitive information had been stolen.Most of the information appeared to have been culled from internal government directories, including employees’ email addresses, phone numbers and job titles.Motherboard, a technology news site, reported on Sunday that it had been approached by a hacker who claimed to have obtained employee information on about 20,000 people at the F.B.I. and 9,000 at the Department of Homeland Security.The hacker professed support for pro-Palestinian groups and vowed to make the information public in an apparent attempt to embarrass federal agencies that play a part in cybersecurity operations. The hacker released the information on Sunday and Monday.Officials at the Justice Department and the Department of Homeland Security said they were examining the breach.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“There is no indication at this time that there is any breach of personally identifiable information,” said Peter Carr, a spokesman for the Justice Department. Marsha Catron, a Homeland Security spokeswoman, echoed that statement.It was unclear when the breach had occurred or whether it was connected to an intrusion last fall that exposed personal emails of Jeh Johnson, the Homeland Security secretary, and John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director. The hackers who claimed to have carried out those attacks also expressed pro-Palestinian views.The new breach does not appear to have resulted from an attack using an outside computer to penetrate the system. Instead, officials said, they believe that the intruder impersonated a government employee and used that information to get into other parts of the system.The officials would not elaborate on how that had been done, but described it as a social engineering breach, which could involve pulling personal information from social media and using it to determine passwords.Agencies across the federal government have struggled to keep computer information secure from both outside hackers and their own employees.A much bigger intrusion that targeted the Office of Personnel Management exposed security clearance dossiers and sensitive information for nearly 22 million Americans. Chinese hackers were thought to have been behind the attack, which was much more sweeping than officials initially acknowledged publicly last year.

Ron Nixon contributed reporting.
Follow the New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on February 9, 2016, on page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: Hackers Get Employee Records at Justice and Homeland Security Departments.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










Nothing Classified or Hip in C.I.A. Director’s Hacked Email
OCT. 20, 2015













Hacking of Government Computers Exposed 21.5 Million People
JULY 9, 2015









White House Weighs Sanctions After Second Breach of a Computer System
JUNE 12, 2015













U.S. Was Warned of System Open to Cyberattacks
JUNE 5, 2015













Hacking Linked to China Exposes Millions of U.S. Workers
JUNE 4, 2015
























Related Coverage







Nothing Classified or Hip in C.I.A. Director’s Hacked Email
OCT. 20, 2015













Hacking of Government Computers Exposed 21.5 Million People
JULY 9, 2015













White House Weighs Sanctions After Second Breach of a Computer System
JUNE 12, 2015











U.S. Was Warned of System Open to Cyberattacks
JUNE 5, 2015













Hacking Linked to China Exposes Millions of U.S. Workers
JUNE 4, 2015













Russian Hackers Read Obama’s Unclassified Emails, Officials Say
APRIL 25, 2015












Show All





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















