
  




Hacker Disrupts Government Websites in Canada - The New York Times





























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Americas|Hacker Disrupts Government Websites in Canada



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1xQ63IV




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Americas 
Hacker Disrupts Government Websites in Canada

By IAN AUSTENNOV. 24, 2014



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








OTTAWA — Since Friday, people turning to the websites of Canada’s Parliament, its Supreme Court, the city of Ottawa and the Ottawa and Toronto police forces have been occasionally greeted by a gyrating, anthropomorphic banana or, more frequently, an error message.The disruptions were prompted by a hacker or a small group of hackers supporting the cause of an Ottawa teenager who was charged last spring with making hoax telephone calls throughout North America. The calls led the police in a number of provinces and states to send out tactical squads in response to supposed emergencies, a practice known as swatting.Using the name Aerith, with slight variations, the hacker claimed responsibility for the website disruptions in emails and a posting online. The sender claimed to be affiliated with the shadowy online collective Anonymous. When asked by email how many people were involved, Aerith, who said that he or she was in Brazil, replied, “We act as a group.”At some point in the past few weeks, the hacker contacted the family of the Ottawa teenager, who cannot be identified under Canadian law, claiming to have information that would vindicate him. The youth was charged with 60 criminal counts related to the episodes after an investigation by Canadian police forces and the F.B.I. During a weekend news conference, the boy’s father said he discovered what he described as law enforcement eavesdropping equipment hidden in compact fluorescent light bulbs in his home, based on information provided by the hackers.Neither the father nor the hacker, however, has released any of the information that they say will show the teenager was falsely accused.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Along with the banana, which first appeared on Ottawa’s municipal website on Friday, Aerith posted statements denouncing the city’s police and provided personal information about the lead investigator and the city’s police chief.The hacker did not knock down every site. A spokesman for the Supreme Court said it temporarily shut down its site as a protective measure. The site failures varied considerably in length. A memo to House of Commons employees said that its site was down for five minutes. The Ottawa Police Service website went down over the weekend and was still out of service late Monday afternoon. The city’s site, which had recovered, was again briefly out of service late in the day on Monday.Gabriella Coleman, a professor at McGill University in Montreal who studies Anonymous and other hackers said this hacker did not appear to be involved with the larger group. She said that usually a broad group of hackers would soon join in with attacks and other gestures of support.“This is not what happened here,” she said. “He doesn’t seem to have gained any kind of support from existing groups.” Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















