
  




Hackers Demand Ransom From TalkTalk, British Telecom Firm - The New York Times













































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|Hackers Demand Ransom From TalkTalk, British Telecom Firm



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1S0LzWb




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
Hackers Demand Ransom From TalkTalk, British Telecom Firm

By MARK SCOTTOCT. 23, 2015



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Video

TalkTalk Chief Unsure About Stolen Data


The chief executive of the British telecommunications provider TalkTalk, Dido Harding, said she did not know what customer information was stolen in a cyberattack on the company.

                    By REUTERS on                                                                Publish Date October 23, 2015.
                                    


Watch in Times Video »







embed










The chief executive of TalkTalk, a British telecommunications provider, said on Friday that she had received a ransom demand from hackers who had claimed responsibility for stealing data on some of the company’s four million customers.TalkTalk, which offers cable and fixed-line services in Britain, said local authorities had opened a criminal investigation into the widespread data breach. The hackers may have gained access to personal data on the company’s customers, including sensitive information like credit card details, dates of birth and addresses.“Yes, we have been contacted, by I don’t know whether it’s an individual or a group purporting to be the hacker,” Dido Harding, TalkTalk’s chief executive, told the BBC.Ms. Harding did not provide further details on who the hackers could be.Blair Bishop, a TalkTalk spokeswoman, confirmed that the company had been contacted by someone claiming responsibility and seeking payment.In a statement, the broadband provider said it did not know how much of its users’ data had been compromised, and that the British police were leading the investigation into the matter. TalkTalk said it had become aware of the breach late on Wednesday.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“We have also begun contacting all customers directly with full details,” the company said in a statement.TalkTalk’s shares fell as much as 11 percent in morning trading in London, but recovered by the afternoon and were down 2.3 percent in midafternoon trading.Despite the claims of responsibility, it remained unclear whether the group that had contacted TalkTalk was behind the breach or whether the ransom demands were credible.Yet TalkTalk’s data breach — the third successful attack on the company in the past 12 months — is the latest in a number of online hackings that have affected a wide range of companies, including Target, Home Depot and JPMorgan Chase.It also potentially represents a high-profile example of hackers’ efforts to ransom stolen online data to companies or individuals.Such tactics, commonly known as ransomware, have often involved hackers encrypting people’s computer data and holding it hostage until a fee is paid. In certain instances, hackers have also stolen data directly from companies and demanded payment for not publishing the material online.Despite TalkTalk’s rapid response to the data breach, some users and security experts criticized the company for going public about the hacking before knowing all the details.The telecom provider’s efforts, however, come before planned changes in Europe that would force any company that has been affected by a data breach to inform privacy regulators within three days of the hacking or potentially face fines. Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















