



Helping Families Avoid Plight of Homelessness - NYTimes.com






























































.NYT5Style .masthead-tools #bar1-button  {
    display: inline;
    vertical-align: top;
}
#bar1-button {
    border:none;
    position: relative;
}
.bar1_hover {
    opacity: 0;
}
.sub_small_hide {
    display: none;
}
#bar1-button > a {
    -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
    background-color: #6288A5;
    border: 1px solid #4D7B9F;
    border-radius: 3px;
    color: #fff !important;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 1em;
    font-weight: bold;
    font-family: nyt-franklin,nyt-franklin-1,'Helvetica Neue',Arial,sans-serif;
    padding: 7px 10px 6px;
    text-transform: uppercase;
    text-decoration: none;
}
#bar1-button > a:hover {
    background-color: #326891;
    border: 1px solid #265E8B;
    text-decoration: none;
}

/* EXCLUDING NYT4 INTERACTIVES */
#interactiveABC #bar1-button {
   display: none;
}


Subscribe Now


Subscribe

campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global


NYTD.loadEditionToggle();

window.setTimeout(function() {
  var login = document.getElementById('memberToolsLogin');
  if (login) {
    login.href += "?URI=" + window.location.href;
  }
}, 0)







Search All NYTimes.com










N.Y. / Region





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








Helping Families Avoid Plight of Homelessness


By MERRI ROSENBERG


Published: May 16, 1993









GREENBURGH— 
                    THE early-morning sunlight streams into the dining room of the modest home where Naomi Washington has lived for more than 30 years. A vase with pink tulips is carefully arranged on the dining table, offering a suggestion of spring. In the living room, where large recliners flank a sectional sofa, mirrors reflect matching bookcases that contain encyclopedias.        

                    In this white, six-bedroom house in the Fairview section of Greenburgh, children's riding toys share driveway space with the family car, evidence of Mrs. Washington's three great-grandchildren, who share her home with their grandmother, Joyce Pegram, the eldest of Mrs. Washington's five daughters.        

                    Despite the efforts that the family has made to keep its home neat and tidy, it is hard not to notice the wobbly counters in the kitchen, the broken tiles in the bathrooms or the obviously new windows that just as obviously are missing proper wood frames -- reminders of the shabby renovation work that almost cost Mrs. Washington and Mrs. Pegram their home.        

                    What prevented Mrs. Washington and Mrs. Pegram from becoming part of the county's homeless statistics was the intervention of a nonprofit program called the Bridge Fund, a program of Grace Church Community Center in White Plains.        

                    The fund was started in January 1991 by Nan and Oscar Pollock and the Rev. Peter Larom, former rector of Grace Episcopal Church and now director of the Seaman's Church Institute of New York and New Jersey, to help people avoid homelessness by making available small, short-term loans limited to $2,000. According to the county's Department of Social Services, close to 60 percent of those families who become homeless have been evicted from their homes. A Referral Is Necessary        

                    "If a pot of money were available when someone has a crisis, chances are they wouldn't end up in a hotel," said Stanley Schear, director of the Bridge Fund. "And once people are in a system, it's hard to get out. Because of the economic decline, lots of people lost income in the last few years and couldn't handle a crisis. Eighty percent of the people who come to us are working people who live from paycheck to paycheck. When they are in trouble, they need a little help and maybe some hand holding from us. Their biggest fear is 'I don't want to be homeless.' "        

                    To receive help, people must be referred to the Bridge Fund by a major social services agency or a charity like the United Way, Catholic Charities, the Salvation Army or the Red Cross, or a church or synagogue or Westchester Legal Services or the county's mediation service, called Cluster, which monitors the court system. Applications from walk-ins are not accepted.        

                    "In preventing homelessness, speed is of the essence," said Oscar Pollock, a Katonah resident and partner in the Wall Street firm of Ingalls & Snyder. "The Bridge Fund was created in response to the needs of advocates of the homeless. They all felt that many homeless situations could be prevented. The Bridge Fund works best with a family or individual whose problems are largely financial. We are financial advisers to people in trouble who are at risk of losing their homes. We help individuals get a job, do budgeting, get their expenses in line with their incomes and work out a financial plan.        

                    "It works best with the working poor of the county -- most of our clients fall into that broad category. When somebody becomes a client of the Bridge Fund, it becomes a challenge to us. We make every effort to see our client succeed. We want to prevent them from spiraling downward. That's the key. We want to avoid having good people, who are trying, fall into the public-shelter system; it's not easy to work your way out." A Typical Example        

                    Dorothy T., a 45-year-old White Plains resident whose last name was withheld to protect her privacy, is typical of the Bridge Fund's clients. When an accident left her unable to continue working as a bookkeeper, she was discharged and found it difficult to pay rent on her apartment. As a single mother of a disabled son, she applied to the Department of Social Services for assistance but was told that her rent was too high.        

                    "They said they couldn't help me," Mrs. T. said. "They told me if I was evicted, I would be put up in a hotel. It's terrible not knowing if someone will throw you out of your apartment. It's hard when you work all your life and pay your taxes and try to get help and can't get it. The Bridge Fund gave me some money to help pay my rent and helped me with social services to get nursing assistance and other help. This was the bridge over rough water. Mr. Schear was our guardian angel. If it wasn't for Mr.  Schear, we would have been a homeless statistic."        

                    The Bridge Fund, which is privately financed by contributions from individuals and foundations, made loans and a few outright grants totaling $97,154 in 126 cases last year. Eighty-nine of those loans helped prevent evictions or foreclosures, and 17 assisted people who needed more affordable housing. An additional 20 loans, for security deposits and moving expenses, were offered to families that wanted to move out of the shelter system into permanent housing.        

                    Although the Bridge Fund primarily offers assistance to those who face evictions, some of their clients, like Mrs. Pegram and Mrs. Washington, are homeowners who face the prospect of a bank foreclosure. When Mrs. Pegram became a widow a few years ago, she decided to move in with her mother, who had also been widowed.  With the original home mortgage down to a negligible amount, the family decided to apply for a loan to upgrade the property. They ended up with a 15-year mortgage at a 15.5 percent annual interest rate, which substantially raised their monthly expenses -- and quickly caused them to fall behind in payments to the bank and Con Edison.        

                    "We were looking to fix up the kitchen, our three bathrooms, roof and windows," said Mrs. Pegram, a postal employee in Elmsford and the mother of six grown children. "The contractors were with us for a year, and it didn't take that long for all the money to be gone. The contractor had left debris on the side of the house, which caused a fire, and then he added the damage to the bill. We paid them in full, but the windows still aren't framed, and now the kitchen looks worse than it did before. The tiles are all broken and there is constant leakage under the sink."        

                    By the time Mrs. Pegram and Mrs. Washington were referred to the White Plains office of the Bridge Fund by a housing counselor in the Office for the Aging, they were a few weeks from foreclosure. Mr. Schear worked with the family to consolidate its two mortgages by applying to Chemical Bank, which provides mortgage money from its affirmative mortgage pool for at-risk families.  Mr. Schear and a counselor from the Bridge Fund worked with the family on a budget that would bring expenses into line with the family's income. Mrs. Pegram said: "Every week I come and go through the bills with Mr. Schear. He is just like my father. I think of him as family. When this ends, we will miss him. But as soon as we get back on our feet, we will pay back our loan." All loans that the Bridge Fund makes to its clients are interest free -- and last year, repayments totaled close to $42,000.        

                    Paul Feiner, Town Supervisor of Greenburgh, added: "I've worked with them very often and think it's a fabulous group. This is much more cost effective and makes more sense by enabling people to avoid homelessness. Once people are homeless, they stay in the system. It's hard to escape. You want to avoid people going into the system."        

                    Photo: Joyce Pegram, right, and her mother, Naomi Washington, of Greenburgh, who are being aided by the Bridge Fund. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)        








 














 



















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback







var dcsvid = "";
var regstatus = "non-registered";





campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Inv1
