
  




Hillary Clinton Rides a Wave of Caution in Uncertain Seas - The New York Times





































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Election 2016|Hillary Clinton Rides a Wave of Caution in Uncertain Seas



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/24OzLxL




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Election 2016 
Hillary Clinton Rides a Wave of Caution in Uncertain Seas

By JOHN HARWOODMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






Hillary Clinton at a campaign event on Monday at the Charles H. Wright Museum of African American History in Detroit.

Credit
            Richard Perry/The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



DETROIT — Hillary Clinton has a clearer path to the Democratic presidential nomination than she ever had in 2008. But she is marching toward November facing the likelihood of an unpredictable opponent — and constrained by well-defined characteristics that have always limited her ability to inspire.







The former first lady calls it her “responsibility gene”; rivals deride it as poll-tested caution. Either way, it leaves Mrs. Clinton trying to hit singles and doubles while her Democratic socialist challenger swings for the fences.Bernie Sanders advocates tax increases of $15 trillion affecting all income groups; Mrs. Clinton seeks an additional $1 trillion in revenue and would leave the bottom 95 percent of earners alone. He calls for a “Medicare for all” single-payer health care system; Mrs. Clinton aims to build on President Obama’s Affordable Care Act. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









What We’re Watching as 4 States Vote and Both Parties Court MichiganMARCH 8, 2016











Who Is Running for President?JAN. 30, 2015







He proposes breaking up Wall Street banks that have grown since the financial crisis; she backs tougher regulations but embraces the 2010 Dodd-Frank law that would dismantle banks posing systemic risks. He calls for $1 trillion in new spending to improve infrastructure and create jobs; she calls for $275 billion — half of what her husband’s Treasury secretary, Lawrence Summers, has advocated.“I’ve gone as far as I think the political equation will sustain,” Mrs. Clinton said in an interview at a manufacturer of automobile dashboards. “I want to propose things I can get done.”Judged against the 10 years it took for a gridlocked Congress to pass long-term highway funding — Mr. Obama signed the $305 billion measure three months ago — Mrs. Clinton’s approach sounds reasonable. Yet she watches Mr. Sanders thrill young Democratic audiences by exhorting them to alter what’s possible through “political revolution.”“People make all these claims,” Mrs. Clinton said, a hint of frustration in her voice. “And it’s hard for voters to really evaluate how do they decide is this person, you know, being smart? Are they just overpromising? Are they way out in left field or right field?“That’s why I’ve tried to say, ‘Look, here’s what I will do. Here’s how I will do it. Here’s how much it will cost.’ I think that’s pretty revolutionary.”Her approach, honed by a generation of political combat, has her on track for the Democratic nomination. Mr. Sanders’s success has so far exceeded most predictions, including almost certainly his own. But since cresting in New Hampshire, his “Feel the Bern” wave has receded with no sign of intensification as the contest shifts to larger, more diverse states.Has the storm passed? “I hope so,” Mrs. Clinton said. Then she added warily: “There’s always something — something that can come at you, drop from the sky.”That’s what Donald J. Trump has done to Republicans. If he succeeds, he would represent an opponent less restrained and more unpredictable than any she has faced before.Alongside her husband in 1992, Mrs. Clinton experienced a similar wild card in Ross Perot’s independent candidacy. Mr. Trump has broken even more rules than Mr. Perot did, from his unlikely proposal to deport 11 million illegal immigrants, to his lightning policy reversals, to the crude insults he sprays at opponents of all kinds.Like most Democrats, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign strategists say they believe the nonwhites driven to vote against Mr. Trump would exceed the additional white voters he would attract. But they cannot be certain.He attacked Mr. Clinton’s personal life after Mrs. Clinton accused him of sexism. He tells audiences she may be prosecuted over her private email server (the existence of which, many Democrats say, represents a paradoxical instance of her defensive instincts actually damaging her).“It doesn’t make me nervous,” the cautious candidate said of running against Mr. Trump. After all, she added, Republicans “have been after me for years. Nothing new about that.”





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















