
  




U.S. to Further Scour Social Media Use of Visa and Asylum Seekers - The New York Times

















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|U.S. to Further Scour Social Media Use of Visa and Asylum Seekers



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/21c7xOe




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
U.S. to Further Scour Social Media Use of Visa and Asylum Seekers

By RON NIXONFEB. 23, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON —  The Department of Homeland Security, at the urging of Congress, is building tools to more aggressively examine the social media accounts of all visa applicants and those seeking asylum or refugee status in the United States for possible ties to terrorist organizations.Posts on Twitter, Facebook and other social media can reveal a wealth of information that can be used to identify potential terrorists, but experts say the department faces an array of technical, logistical and language barriers in trying to analyze the millions of records generated every day.After the December mass shooting in 
San Bernardino, Calif., “we saw that our efforts are not as robust as they need to be,” Francis X. Taylor, under secretary for intelligence and analysis, the top counterterrorism official at the Department of Homeland Security, said at a congressional hearing.Travel industry officials and immigration rights advocates say the new policy carries the peril of making someone who posts legitimate criticism of American foreign policy or who has friends or followers who express sympathy toward terrorists subject to unwarranted scrutiny.Their concerns underline the mounting challenge for law enforcement agencies that are trying to keep pace with the speed and scope of technology as terrorists turn to social media as an essential tool.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“We haven’t seen the policy, but it is a concern considering the already lengthy and opaque process that refugees have to go through,” said Melanie Nezer of HIAS, a group that helps resettle refugees in the United States. “It could keep out people who are not a threat.” Several trade organizations in the travel industry said they had similar concerns.The attackers in San Bernardino, Tashfeen Malik and her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, had exchanged private online messages discussing their commitment to jihad and martyrdom, law enforcement officials said. But they did not post any public messages about their plans on Facebook or other social media platforms, officials said. Continue reading the main story







Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Since the shooting, counterterrorism officials and lawmakers have grown increasingly worried about the use of social media by terrorist groups like the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.In Congress, several bills, including one by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, have been introduced that would require the Department of Homeland Security to screen the social media use of refugees and those visiting or migrating to the United States.Mr. McCain’s bill, along with a similar measure introduced by Representative Vern Buchanan, Republican of Florida, would require the department to examine all public records, including “Internet sites and social media profiles,” to determine whether an applicant would be a security risk.“This legislation adds an important and necessary layer of screening that will go a long way in properly vetting the online activities of those wishing to enter the United States,” said Representative Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee.“A simple check of social media accounts of foreign travelers and visa applicants,” he added, “will help ensure that those who have participated in, pledged allegiance to or communicated with terrorist organizations cannot enter the United States.”Congress has yet to act on the legislation, but Democrats have also called for more screening of social media accounts. In December, 22 Democratic lawmakers sent a letter to the secretary of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, urging him to have the agency immediately begin reviewing applicants’ social media accounts.
Photo






Jeh Johnson, the secretary of Homeland Security, this month. The department said it developed a list of situations where social media accounts could be examined to screen visa applicants and those seeking asylum or refugee status.

Credit
            Drew Angerer for The New York Times        


“We believe these checks, focused on possible connections to terrorist activity, should be incorporated into D.H.S.’s vetting process for visa determinations, and that this policy should be implemented as soon as possible,” the letter says.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The department said that it had developed a list of nearly three dozen situations where social media can be examined to screen applicants, but that it did not consistently examine accounts for signs of support or participation in terrorist organizations.Last year, the department established a task force to study the issue and to make recommendations to Mr. Johnson on ways to incorporate the screening of social media accounts into the vetting process. A new social media policy is expected soon; agency officials did not give a timetable.The department says it has four pilot projects to examine the use of social media among applicants for immigration benefits. One of the projects, which began in December and runs through June, screens the social media accounts of applicants for the so-called fiancé visa, the program under which Ms. Malik entered the United States.The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is part of the Department of Homeland Security, uses social media as part of the screening process for Syrian refuges, but only when the person is flagged because of a hit in an intelligence database or when questions are raised during an interview with immigration officials.The agency does not have the ability to reach private communications sent via direct messaging.“All we have is the ability to access the public-facing statements that individuals make,” León Rodríguez, the agency’s director, said at the congressional hearing, on Feb. 3. “We do not have a way to reach private communications.”Mr. Rodríguez said that while some social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter were scanned with software, most screening was done manually by analysts at the agency.“It’s slow going and, short term, is just for Syrians,” he said.In the future, the Department of Homeland Security hopes to find a way to fully automate the process of going through a huge amount of messages and other data, he said. It said it would bring in experts from the technology industry at the end of the month to talk about the tools available to search social media.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The agency said it would also have to hire and train additional people, including more linguists, to screen the accounts.But experts say that analyzing the social media accounts of tens of millions of people who entered the country each year to work, visit and live would be exceedingly difficult.Users might have multiple accounts on different platforms, the accounts can be in different languages, and many people use aliases.John Elder, a data-mining expert based in Charlottesville, Va., who has worked with the Internal Revenue Service and the Postal Service on fraud detection, said it was possible to build models to scan thousands of social media postings for information that could help identify potential terrorists.“But hopefully, people won’t have the expectation that it will be an infallible oracle,” he said. “It will help you pinpoint things you need to check further, but it’s not error free.”David Heyman, a former assistant secretary of Homeland Security for policy, agrees. “You have to be careful how you design the proposal to screen people,” he said. “Artificial intelligence and algorithms have a poor ability to discern sarcasm or parody.”

Follow the New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on February 24, 2016, on page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Faces Challenges in More Thoroughly Screening Visa and Asylum Applicants.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










U.S. Expands Restrictions on Visa-Waiver Program for Visitors
FEB. 18, 2016













U.S. Placed Immigrant Children With Traffickers, Report Says
JAN. 28, 2016













Lawsuits Claim Disney Colluded to Replace U.S. Workers With Immigrants
JAN. 25, 2016













U.S. Tightens Visa Rules for Some European Visitors
JAN. 21, 2016
























Related Coverage







U.S. Expands Restrictions on Visa-Waiver Program for Visitors
FEB. 18, 2016













U.S. Placed Immigrant Children With Traffickers, Report Says
JAN. 28, 2016













Lawsuits Claim Disney Colluded to Replace U.S. Workers With Immigrants
JAN. 25, 2016













U.S. Tightens Visa Rules for Some European Visitors
JAN. 21, 2016













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















