
  




How Wealth Plays Into Politics at a Personal Level - The New York Times







































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|How Wealth Plays Into Politics at a Personal Level



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KlHkF8




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics |                        Letter From America                                    
How Wealth Plays Into Politics at a Personal Level

By ANAND GIRIDHARADASFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






Hillary Clinton in Des Moines last month. A study shows that relative wealth makes a difference in how some Democrats think on policies.

Credit
            Doug Mills/The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



The debate over widening inequality, and what to do about it, has gradually moved toward the center of the political agenda and fueled populist movements on the left and the right in many nations.







But in the United States — where a competitive political campaign requires huge sums of money, and wealth or access to it is increasingly a prerequisite for entry — the debate has become supercharged.Voters in both parties find themselves wondering whether anyone is looking out for the little guy, even as a candidate like Donald J. Trump suggests that it is precisely his wealth that liberates him from the influence of special interests.So it is fair to ask whether a politician’s personal bankroll should be taken into account by voters as a predictor of how he or she might lead. A growing body of research has addressed the extent to which wealth, behavior and policy are linked.Although there are always exceptions, the research generally confirms what many voters perhaps always intuited: that rich political leaders are not like poor political leaders but with more money; rather, wealth changes people qualitatively.Wealth plays out in the political sphere in all kinds of ways, often personally. Can Hillary Clinton represent the interests of working people when she and her husband have taken so much money from Wall Street? Was Mitt Romney’s private-equity business too ruthless with workers?But the bigger question is whether money predicts where leaders will come down on policy.The study perhaps most relevant to the relationship between wealth and political behavior is one that looked at whether the wealth of members of Congress predicted their support for legislation affecting inequality.As it is, the typical lawmaker is dozens of times richer than the typical American. But even within Congress, the researchers Michael W. Kraus and Bennett Callaghan found, relative wealth matters — if you’re a Democrat.Republicans across the board support policies such as lowering taxes on the rich or reducing business regulation, the authors of the study found. But among Democrats, wealthy lawmakers were more likely to think like Republicans in this regard, while poorer lawmakers were more likely to support such policies as raising the minimum wage or forgiving student debt.Beyond politics and policy, the research also suggests that wealth makes the rich feel, reason, choose and perceive differently from the less privileged.One study examined people’s propensity to break rules — in this case, driving rules. Researchers from the University of California, Berkeley, and the University of Toronto examined what kind of drivers violated laws at intersections in California.They found that drivers of luxury vehicles cut off other drivers about 30 percent of the time and cut off pedestrians roughly 45 percent of the time — compared with about 8 percent and 0 percent for drivers of the humblest vehicles.Their conclusion: The common assumption that resource scarcity fuels most unethical behavior may need updating; the freedom and self-orientation conferred by high status may be far more combustible.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Other studies have shown that wealth makes it harder for people to read other people’s emotional cues and to be affected by their pain.One study examining mock job interviews — led by Dr. Kraus at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign — found that poorer people “were more accurate in judging the specific emotions (e.g., contempt, sympathy) of their partner relative to upper-class participants.”In a related study cited by Dr. Kraus, students from upper- and lower-class families were shown a video of distress and suffering, and a neutral control video.The sad video reduced the heart rate of the poorer students — a response associated with fellow feeling — while the heartbeats of the richer students remained consistent.Of course, in the life of any politician, personal wealth is just one factor among many. Perhaps religion offers an apt analogy. Many candidates will tell you their faith shapes how they see the world and how they choose to act — though none will say it is all controlling. Perhaps wealth should be seen in the same vein, though candidates may be less likely to bring it up.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















