



HOW TO CATCH A LIAR - NYTimes.com






























































.NYT5Style .masthead-tools #bar1-button  {
    display: inline;
    vertical-align: top;
}
#bar1-button {
    border:none;
    position: relative;
}
.bar1_hover {
    opacity: 0;
}
.sub_small_hide {
    display: none;
}
#bar1-button > a {
    -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
    background-color: #6288A5;
    border: 1px solid #4D7B9F;
    border-radius: 3px;
    color: #fff !important;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 1em;
    font-weight: bold;
    font-family: nyt-franklin,nyt-franklin-1,'Helvetica Neue',Arial,sans-serif;
    padding: 7px 10px 6px;
    text-transform: uppercase;
    text-decoration: none;
}
#bar1-button > a:hover {
    background-color: #326891;
    border: 1px solid #265E8B;
    text-decoration: none;
}

/* EXCLUDING NYT4 INTERACTIVES */
#interactiveABC #bar1-button {
   display: none;
}


Subscribe Now


Subscribe

campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/books, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/books, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global


NYTD.loadEditionToggle();

window.setTimeout(function() {
  var login = document.getElementById('memberToolsLogin');
  if (login) {
    login.href += "?URI=" + window.location.href;
  }
}, 0)







Search All NYTimes.com










Books





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
Art & DesignBooksSunday Book ReviewBest SellersDanceMoviesMusicTelevisionTheaterVideo GamesEventsInternational Arts 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








HOW TO CATCH A LIAR


By Carol Z. Malatesta; Carol Z. Malatesta, who teaches psychology at the New School for Social Research, is the co-author of ''Emotion in Adult Development.''


Published: March 31, 1985









                    TELLING LIES Clues to Deceit in the Marketplace, Politics, and Marriage.        

                    By Paul Ekman.  Illustrated. 320 pp. New York: W. W. Norton & Company. $17.95.        

                    MAN is the thinking animal and by virtue of speech an inventing, story-making and lying animal. While lower animals can deceive and mislead through camouflage and similar devices, as far as we know only humans can consciously and deliberately lie.        

                    Paul Ekman's ''Telling Lies'' is about deception and lie catching. It distills 15 years of scientific study of nonverbal communication and the clues to deception. Mr. Ekman, a pioneer in emotions research and nonverbal communication, is a professor of psychology at the University of California, San Francisco. His interest in using nonverbal clues to detect lying was originally prompted by clinical concerns - specifically, an interest in understanding how patients can deceive their therapists about the true state of their feelings and intentions, sometimes with grave consequences (as in the case of a patient who convinced her therapist to give her a weekend pass to visit her family, all the while intending to use the opportunity to commit suicide). As his experiments on lying proceeded and were reported in scientific journals, Mr. Ekman found himself sought for consultation by Government agencies that were interested in applying them to intelligence and counterintelligence, as well as by people selecting and training police officers and business people screening applicants for sensitive positions.        

                    Mr. Ekman was not pleased by this kind of interest. He knew that findings in the field were less than clear and complete, and he was chary of a blind interpretation and application of the results of laboratory studies. He urged caution and discretionary use. Unhappily, his advice often went unheeded. He feared that nonverbal ''experts,'' consulted secretly and unchallenged by public and scientific scrutiny, might supply incomplete or erroneous information. His apprehension about potential abuses led him to write this fascinating account, an accurate, intelligent, informative and thoughtful work that is accessible to the layman and scientist alike. Mr. Ekman describes why and how people lie, why some are successful and others not, how some people are skillful at detecting deception, while others are not, and which clues to deception are reliable and which not. He draws his data from scientific studies and his illustrative material from politics, literature and everyday life.        

                    Several of his examples involve the events leading up to World War II. A number of fateful deceptions were attempted during this time, and many were successful. Hitler, for example, in a face-to-face encounter with the British Prime Minister, Neville Chamberlain, was able to convince him that he was not planning war, and he succeeded in concealing the fact that the German Army was already mobilized to attack Czechoslavakia. Why and how was Chamberlain duped? According to Mr. Ekman, Hitler's success stemmed from his ability to mask his real feelings and intentions, as well as from Chamberlain's lack of access (because of inadequacies of translation) to some of the clues to deception, his failure to accurately interpret those that were available to him and his desire to believe Hitler.        

                    A liar may betray himself through linguistic mistakes, but the main sources of betrayal are the emotions. Emotion reveals itself, sometimes in contradictory ways, in the voice, body and face. Deceptions typically involve trying to conceal or falsify feelings that are inappropriate or not socially sanctioned or trying to cover up the fear, guilt and distress that may be provoked when one attempts to get away with a lie. When a person lies and has an emotional investment in the situation, a perfect performance is hard to carry off. Nonverbal clues to deception leak out. What is perhaps surprising is that few people make use of the leakage clues available to them and thus fail to detect the liar. The problem stems from both the adroitness of the deceiver and the na"ivete of the victim.        

                    Research involving fine-grained analysis of subtle nonverbal clues has been able to isolate and identify signs that index lying. But the signs are not infallible, nor are the people who would use them. Learning capacity, motivational state and flexibility of intelligence are some of the factors to be taken into account in determining which people might profit from a training program in the detection of deceit. Motivation and ability to learn have to be considerable.        

                    For instance, think about the smile, usually an indication of happiness or pleasure. It turns out there are 18 different types of authentic, or ''felt,'' smiles in Mr. Ekman's system - the contemptuous smile, the shy smile, the fearful smile and so on. (Mr. Ekman has even classified the Mona Lisa's smile as a flirtatious one, based on the observation that she is facing one way but glancing sideways at the object of her interest.) This is not to mention the host of false smiles, some of which can be detected by asymmetry, anomalies in timing and lack of involvement of the muscles around the eyes. Can people be trained to detect and use these dozens of subtle and sometimes conflicting cues? Research indicates that trained observers can make such distinctions among types of expressions on videotape. Whether their training will allow them to make the same distinctions with people they confront in ordinary situations is uncertain.        







1

2


Next Page >




 














 



















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback







var dcsvid = "";
var regstatus = "non-registered";





campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/books, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/books, position: Inv1
