
  




Hulk Hogan Exudes Calm on Second Day of Sex Tape Case - The New York Times







































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Media|Hulk Hogan Exudes Calm on Second Day of Sex Tape Case



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1R47mJV




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Media 
Hulk Hogan Exudes Calm on Second Day of Sex Tape Case

By NICK MADIGANMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






Terry Bollea, takes a moment as attorneys talk to the judge in court on Tuesday during his trial against Gawker.

Credit
            Pool photo by John Pendygraft        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — On the witness stand for a second day on Tuesday, Hulk Hogan was far from the chest-thumping, T-shirt-tearing champion wrestler admired for years by his fans for his braggadocio and his swagger.Under relentless cross-examination by a lawyer for the website Gawker, which he has sued for invasion of privacy, the retired wrestler was subdued, even melancholy. Referred to in court by his real name, Terry G. Bollea, and wearing a cross on a silver chain around his neck, he appeared intent on keeping calm under the onslaught, with only the occasional trace of irritation in his responses. Even then, he consistently addressed the lawyer, Michael Sullivan, as “sir.”“I’m not the same person I was before all this stuff happened,” Mr. Bollea said. “I don’t have my guard up any more.” 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Hulk Hogan Takes Stand in His Sex-Tape Lawsuit Against GawkerMARCH 7, 2016







It was the second day of testimony in Mr. Bollea’s $100 million lawsuit against Gawker, which in 2012 posted a secretly recorded video of him having sex with a friend’s wife. The case has raised fundamental issues about privacy rights and freedom of the press in a technologically nimble age in which anyone can publish online the most private and salacious pictures and videos.In the Pinellas County Circuit courtroom, observed by a large contingent of reporters from around the country, the 62-year-old former wrestler gently rebuffed attempts by Mr. Sullivan to paint him as someone who carelessly and routinely flaunted his sexuality and his conquests, and for whom even the most intimate personal details were fodder for publicity.Mr. Bollea insisted that any such disclosures in public were purely an act, a crucial component of his “character” as Hulk Hogan. In that context, he defended radio and television interviews with Howard Stern, Harvey Levin of TMZ and others in which he discussed his love life, the size of his penis, and his daughter’s sexuality. Mr. Bollea said also that his descriptions of a love affair in a memoir, and reality-show video of him sitting on a toilet, his pants around his ankles, were similarly acceptable when viewed as part of his public persona.“I was on an entertainment show: I had to be an entertainer,” Mr. Bollea said, referring to Mr. Stern’s program. “When you’re on his show, you know it’s a character-driven show, so you just roll with it. You have to take the good with the bad.”But the defense lawyer’s questions seemed to imply that Mr. Bollea’s propensity for such disclosures — which continued after the posting in 2012 of the video at issue — was at odds with his claim that his privacy had been violated by the images taken from a security camera in his friend’s bedroom.Mr. Bollea resisted that notion. “My problem,” he said, “is with the videotape that you guys put out, that lives forever on the Internet.”He acknowledged that a celebrity must put up with certain pressures and scrutiny that most people don’t experience. “I’m kind of concerned about Hulk Hogan’s privacy, but you kind of give it away,” he said. “But in the privacy of your own home, no one invades my privacy.”





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















