
  




Africa Kine in Harlem Returns to Its Humble Roots - The New York Times







































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Food|Africa Kine in Harlem Returns to Its Humble Roots



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KcEthG




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Food 
Africa Kine in Harlem Returns to Its Humble Roots


Africa Kine



NYT Critics’ Pick



African
$$


                            2267 Seventh Avenue,
                             Harlem


212-666-9500






Hungry City 
By                     
LIGAYA MISHAN

JAN. 28, 2016



Inside










Continue reading the main story


Slide Show





Slide Show|10 Photos
Africa Kine




Africa Kine

CreditKarsten Moran for The New York Times        








Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



The restaurant was once named Africa, as if embracing an entire continent, when in fact the focus was on the cooking of the western coast, mainly Senegal.







Samba Niang and Kine (pronounced kee-nay) Mar, natives of Dakar, opened its doors two decades ago on the northern side of West 116th Street in Harlem — a strip that soon after became known as Le Petit Sénégal, in honor of the immigrants who brought French and billowing boubous (ankle-length tunic-gowns) to the neighborhood.Eventually the restaurant acquired the suffix Kine, after Ms. Mar, the chef. The space it occupied was small and humble, but in 2005 it turned grand, moving across the street and sprawling over two stories. Takeout was offered below, through a plexiglass shield that grew amber with the years. A stairway wound past carvings in illuminated niches to a dining room with faux-marble tabletops, booths and drapes swept back from yawning windows.In the kitchen, women cooked crowded, fragrant stews by day and men roasted monuments of meat by night.
Continue reading the main story




        Follow NYT Food's board Hungry City Reviews on Pinterest. 



Then, in 2014, Africa Kine closed. The rent was too high; there were rumors of a 7-Eleven moving in. It took Mr. Niang and Ms. Mar almost a year to reopen, last September, 17 blocks uptown.The new space, a former hair salon, is again small and humble. A spartan foyer leads to a takeout window straight ahead and the dining room to the right, with a “Please seat yourself” sign draped in unlit twinkle lights. The booths are one-sided now, the tables more intimate, under a ceiling punctuated by glowing squares of green, yellow and red.




Hungry City
Ligaya Mishan reviews New York's great unsung restaurants.







                                At Pravue Cafe, Albanian Home Cooking in Queens            








                                Taste of Samarkand Is a Silk Road Oasis in Queens            








                                Zing’s Awesome Rice on the Lower East Side Finds Freshness in a Classic            








                                At Manila Social Club in Williamsburg, Rambling Filipino Cuisine            








                                The Top 10 Places to Eat Well and Cheaply in 2015            






See More »



The division of labor in the kitchen persists, with women on the lunch shift, under Ms. Mar, and men clocking in for dinner, under her son, Mbodj Niang. The roster of dishes rotates, so not all are available every day.Come early for chicken yassa, the meat exuding lemon under onions grown slack and sweating sugar, and lamb mafe, a stew creamy with peanut butter, elsewhere in town often too beholden to peanuts but here leavened by streaks of sweet and sour.Suppa kandja, a rubble of okra asea in shining palm oil, stays true to okra’s natural texture, which in Western cultures is often obliterated; what others may call sliminess here lends a kind of buoyancy.

Some lunchtime dishes are made in such quantities that they last through dinner. No such luck with thiebou djeun, or thieb for short, which is traditionally eaten at noon, with the recommendation of a nap afterward.

The plate can barely contain it: red snapper, stuffed with a paste of garlic, onions, peppers and parsley, on a broad stage of rice ruddy from tomato paste and primed with guedj, fermented dried fish, and yete, fermented dried sea snail, funky missives from the sea.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
If you’re lucky, there will be a touch of crispy, nearly burnt grains scraped from the bottom of the pot, called khogn in Wolof and akin to Persian tahdig, Korean nurungji and Spanish socarrat.

Dinner is a languorous procession of heavy plates, perhaps laden with a whole tilapia, deeply slashed and crackling, mobbed on one side by sweet fried plantains, or mechoui, Moroccan-style leg of lamb, whose dark gilding swiftly strips away, the flesh underneath ready to capitulate.Petit pois, fresh green peas, arrive whole and still taste miraculously bright, despite an eternity of stewing. On a recent evening, they were presented with lamb, but my table barely noticed, doting on the peas and their companion potatoes, which had hit the precise mark between sturdy and tender.

A meal may begin with nem, deep-fried but still delicate rice-paper rolls, a recipe handed down by the Vietnamese wives of Senegalese soldiers who fought for the French colonial army in Indochina. And then end with thiakry, millet couscous swollen with sugared milk and sour cream and given a judicious larding of pineapple. This comes in two versions, with white grains or black, the first straightforwardly sweet, the second nuttier, mustier and more interesting.Drinks are sweet, too: bissap (hibiscus), tilting toward cough syrup; ginger, with a late ambush of heat; and bouye (baobab fruit), whose taste I may never know.“It is coming,” the waiter said, more than once, but it never did. In the end, he acknowledged that, for now, the kitchen can’t make it. But he had wanted to keep my hopes alive.





Africa Kine


NYT Critics’ Pick





2267 Seventh Avenue
(133rd Street)
Harlem

212-666-9500
africakine.com 

Recommended Dishes Nem; fataya; petit pois; thiebou guinaar; lamb mafe; mechoui; grilled fish with aloko; thiakry. Prices $5 to $16. Drinks and Wine No liquor license. Price $$ (moderate) Open Daily for lunch and dinner.
Reservations Accepted.
Wheelchair Access The entrance is level with the sidewalk. A restroom is equipped with a handrail.


                This information was last updated: Jan. 29, 2016 












What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















