
  




HURRICANE CHARLEY: SECURITY; Fear of Looting Is on Rise, If Not the Reality of It - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|HURRICANE CHARLEY: SECURITY; Fear of Looting Is on Rise, If Not the Reality of It



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. |                    HURRICANE CHARLEY: SECURITY                
HURRICANE CHARLEY: SECURITY; Fear of Looting Is on Rise, If Not the Reality of It

By RICK LYMANAUG. 21, 2004



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








Mark Silverman has a .357 revolver and a couple of dogs he can use to deal with anyone foolish enough to wander down his street, Scenic View Drive, after dark.''I'm not kidding about this,'' Mr. Silverman said, gesturing at his family's property. ''Looting will not be tolerated. This is all we've got.''A few miles away at the Windmill Village trailer park, one of the places hardest hit by Hurricane Charley, some of the elderly residents who remain have organized a round-the-clock security squad, and rumors were rife Friday about robbers on the prowl.But in actuality, relief officials said, there has been only one verified incident of looting in the community, by a 73-year-old resident who quietly helped herself to some of her absent neighbors' possessions.''There are a lot of rumors, but not much real looting,'' said Michael Jennings, who was organizing the relief efforts at Windmill Village. ''Paranoia, frankly, is a bigger concern. The stress and tension is mounting as the days pass.''

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Earthquakes, tornadoes and other natural disasters are often followed by spates of looting, as if nature's disruption is echoed by a fracture in societal order. In the wake of this hurricane, however, there has been relative calm.Here in Charlotte County, which took the brunt of the storm, there had been only 33 hurricane-related arrests as of Thursday evening, said Ignatius Carroll, a spokesman for the emergency response effort. And that total, Mr. Carroll emphasized, is for a wide variety of offenses: not only looting -- incidents of which have been few, he said -- but also price-gouging, curfew violations and prowling. Continue reading the main story







Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





In neighboring DeSoto County, six people were arrested on Monday in Arcadia for violating the local curfew in an incident law enforcement officials say may have been looting-related, and officials elsewhere reported a similar smattering of small-scale offenses.A crime wave this is not, though that has not stopped the rumors.''I heard that a computer was stolen,'' said Maggie Nash, who is among a population of what are normally hundreds of Windmill Village residents, most of them elderly. ''And one lady had her medicine taken. I also heard about people sneaking in by boat and looting, but that may just be a rumor. Something like that happened six years ago, and I wonder if the story is just getting recycled.''Actually the local police did say there had been a report of a man floating into the community along adjacent Alligator Creek and breaking into one of the homes; they vowed to increase vigilance against looting-by-water. But a sheriff's spokesman said the authorities could not confirm that the incident had really occurred.What was left of Windmill Village baked in the sun Friday, a debris-strewn stretch of mud and twisted aluminum looking less like a wrecked community than like a city dump someone was trying to organize.Several dozen aged residents, sweating and grim, rested on plastic chairs beneath the twin peaks of a shade tent donated by the local Home Depot. Since the storm hit, those residents who have continued to live in the community had been eating together in the roofless, tottering remains of the park's recreation center. But on Thursday, relief officials declared the building unsafe and forced them outside.Almost as soon as the hurricane had passed through, some two dozen of the trailer park's residents, some carrying shotguns or other weapons, organized themselves into a makeshift security squad, patrolling the dark streets, monitoring the perimeter and taking note of every person who tried to enter the community.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

''So far I've been staying elsewhere, because I don't have a generator,'' said George Crossett, one of the Windmill Village residents who gathered Thursday afternoon to hear a report from relief officials. ''But I think I may move back here and join up with those guys. I don't like what I'm hearing here.''What Mr. Crossett and others at Thursday's meeting did not like was that they were being urged by relief officials to move out of their homes, at least for the time being, and take their possessions with them. The homes now lack water and power, and in some cases also pose a danger of collapse.''But if we all move out of here,'' Mr. Crossett said, ''what's going to stop looters then?''Mr. Jennings, the relief organizer, tried to assure the residents that National Guard troops stationed at the community's perimeter would keep looters at bay, although he acknowledged that the troops would not be there around the clock, as there were only 500 to patrol the entire county.''Come on, people,'' Mr. Jennings told the residents in a weary yet sympathetic voice. ''You know, in your hearts, that you cannot stay here.''But Ms. Nash, for her part, said she intended to stay at Windmill Village until someone forced her out.''My home is one of the newer ones, and it's still in good shape,'' she said. ''My husband and I can come down here to the portable toilets every night before we go to bed. We're fine, and we're staying.''Mr. Jennings, who teaches at nearby North Port High School and leads the local Community Emergency Response Team, said a major problem had been getting the elderly residents to accept that they could not remain.''I kind of adopted this area to focus on because my grandfather lives just around the corner,'' he said. ''But it's heartbreaking. A lot of these people are old and scared, and they are afraid what will happen if they leave their homes.''

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

''We're going to bring in some teams on Saturday to help people box up their possessions,'' Mr. Jennings said, ''and we're bringing in some mental health people, too.''Part of what is driving the rumors of looting, he said, is that they provide a further argument for those unwilling to leave. Residents, on the other hand, say they fear that police assurances of minimal looting are disingenuous, intended only to avert panic and restrain itchy trigger fingers.The elderly people of Windmill Village are not the only ones worried about looting. Law enforcement officials in Charlotte County and elsewhere said many residents had posted signs warning away thieves.''Looters Will Be Killed,'' said a sign at the Port Charlotte home of Terry Frye, who punctuated the announcement by positioning himself outside with a shotgun.''Neighborhood Watch Protected by .357,'' read the sign Mr. Silverman placed at the entrance to Scenic View Drive. He is not so sure that the threat of looting is as limited as law enforcement officials claim.Mr. Silverman, a real-estate property manager in his 40's, said Guard troops had been working hard to limit entry to the storm-damaged area at night, with checkpoints on major access roads.''But I've already scared some people off a couple of times since the storm,'' he said. ''There were three or four of them on foot the other night. They sure looked like looters. I don't know what else they'd be doing here in the middle of the night. I heard the neighbor's dogs barking, and then I let my dogs out.''The dim figures disappeared into the gloom, he said.''You've got to be careful walking around at night where you don't belong,'' Mr. Silverman said. ''You might just get shot.'' Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















