
  




In Nod to Law Enforcement in Apple Case, Obama Ends Attempt to Straddle Privacy Divide - The New York Times






















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|In Nod to Law Enforcement in Apple Case, Obama Ends Attempt to Straddle Privacy Divide



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QooMH6




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
In Nod to Law Enforcement in Apple Case, Obama Ends Attempt to Straddle Privacy Divide

By MICHAEL D. SHEARFEB. 19, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






President Obama, during a reception in the East Room at the White House on Thursday, has sought to straddle the line between technology companies and law enforcement.

Credit
            Zach Gibson/The New York Times        


WASHINGTON — For years, President Obama has struggled to reconcile a civil libertarian’s belief in personal privacy with a commander in chief’s imperatives for the nation’s security.This week, security won.The decision by Mr. Obama’s Justice Department to force Apple to help it breach an iPhone used by one of the San Bernardino terrorists has ended, at least for now, the president’s attempts to straddle the feud over encryption between Silicon Valley and law enforcement.Asked about the president’s backing of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s inquiry into San Bernardino, one of the worst terror attacks in the United States since Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Obama’s press secretary declared on Wednesday that “the F.B.I. can count on the full support of the White House.”The decision may have been all but inevitable for Mr. Obama, who every morning receives a classified intelligence briefing about the terrorist threats facing the United States. But he took the position after years of trying to find middle ground on the issue.In a meeting with technology company executives in the Situation Room last spring, Mr. Obama pleaded with them to allow national security and law enforcement officials some access to private data, according to one participant in the room. In an interview last year with Re/Code, a technology website, Mr. Obama lamented being stuck, “smack-dab in the middle of these tensions.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“I think he realizes there’s no clear-cut answer here,” said Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, a Democrat who serves on the House Intelligence Committee. “But if ever there was going to be a nod to the law enforcement view, this was the one to do it.”For much of his presidency, Mr. Obama has been unwilling to become a champion for either side, even as technological advances in encryption made a clash between privacy and security inevitable.After Edward J. Snowden exposed some of the government’s most secret surveillance programs in 2013, the president repeatedly expressed support for the protection of user data on iPhones and other devices. But he also acknowledged the “legitimate need” to penetrate encryption, especially during terror investigations.Starting in 2010, top law enforcement officials for Mr. Obama, including officials at the F.B.I., began pushing for legislation to force technology companies to ensure that law enforcement agencies could have access to personal data. By 2015, Mr. Obama’s administration had backed away from support for a new law, saying the president preferred to seek cooperation with Silicon Valley instead.Mr. Obama has a close relationship with Silicon Valley — he has dinners with its tech titans and raises money there — but like his predecessors, he has been torn by the responsibilities he faces every day: securing the country against terrorists, supporting criminal investigations and prosecuting a war against extremists who are increasingly turning to encrypted technologies to evade detection.
Video

New York Prosecutor on Privacy and Apple


Cyrus R. Vance Jr., the Manhattan district attorney, called Apple and Google the "wild west" of technology on Friday.

                    By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS on                                                                Publish Date February 19, 2016.
                                    

                                            Photo by Bryan R. Smith for The New York Times.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed










“There are times where folks who see this through a civil liberties or privacy lens reject that there’s any trade-offs involved, and in fact there are,” Mr. Obama said in the interview with Re/Code. “We can’t pretend that there are no trade-offs whatsoever.”Several former Obama administration officials said they believed the president personally leaned, at least slightly, toward the view that technology companies must be allowed to secure personal data if they want to earn the trust of their customers.He also understands, they said, the problems that could arise if governments like China and Russia demand the same backdoor access to American technologies that the F.B.I. wants. In the same interview, he said, “I lean probably further in the direction of strong encryption than some do inside of law enforcement.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

But some civil libertarians view Mr. Obama as, at best, a weak supporter of their views and one who has too often been swayed by his national security and law enforcement apparatus.Some of those civil libertarians said Thursday that Mr. Obama’s vocal support for the F.B.I.’s aggressive legal tactics against Apple was evidence that the president is too willing to accede to the demands of his national security advisers. Timothy D. Cook, the Apple chief executive, who in the past has expressed deep respect for Mr. Obama, has vowed to fight the order.“This is yet another disappointment in a string of disappointments when it comes to privacy,” said Kevin Bankston, the director of the Open Technology Institute at the New America Foundation.Mr. Bankston said the F.B.I.’s decision to choose the San Bernardino case to press, legally, had been a smart way to put pressure on Mr. Obama and the technology companies. But he urged the president to consider the broader implications for privacy if Apple loses the case.“The fact that it’s linked to the shootings makes it much more difficult politically,” Mr. Bankston said. “But the answer is to highlight that it’s not just about this case. It’s about every encrypted device.”Mr. Schiff said the specifics of the California case might provide courts with the ability to narrow that impact. The phone in the case was owned by the terrorist’s employer, who has given permission for law enforcement to search it. To do that, officials need Apple’s help. If courts agree with the government, they might attempt to apply their ruling in limited cases.Regardless of the outcome of the case, any final resolution is unlikely to come before Mr. Obama leaves office early next year — timing that in some ways works for the president.“Taking this case to the courts buys the administration a bit more time on these issues,” Mr. Schiff said. “This is a very challenging issue for the administration. There simply is no easy answer.”

Follow the New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on February 20, 2016, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Torn, but Obama Nods to Security.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










How Tim Cook, in iPhone Battle, Became a Bulwark for Digital Privacy
FEB. 18, 2016













Apple’s Line in the Sand Was Over a Year in the Making
FEB. 18, 2016













Apple Letter on iPhone Security Draws Muted Tech Industry Response
FEB. 18, 2016













Times Readers Weigh In on the Apple Debate
FEB. 18, 2016













Apple Fights Order to Unlock San Bernardino Gunman’s iPhone
FEB. 17, 2016
























Related Coverage







How Tim Cook, in iPhone Battle, Became a Bulwark for Digital Privacy
FEB. 18, 2016













Apple’s Line in the Sand Was Over a Year in the Making
FEB. 18, 2016













Apple Letter on iPhone Security Draws Muted Tech Industry Response
FEB. 18, 2016















Times Readers Weigh In on the Apple Debate
FEB. 18, 2016













Apple Fights Order to Unlock San Bernardino Gunman’s iPhone
FEB. 17, 2016












Show All





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















