
  




Indonesia’s Tsunami Sensors Were Down During Quake - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|Indonesia’s Tsunami Sensors Were Down During Quake



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/24DCFFF




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Asia Pacific 
Indonesia’s Tsunami Sensors Were Down During Quake

By JOE COCHRANEMARCH 3, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






A sign for a tsunami evacuation route on Thursday, a day after a magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck far out at sea near Padang, West Sumatra Province, Indonesia.

Credit
            Darren Whiteside/Reuters        


JAKARTA, Indonesia —  Indonesia was compelled to rely on tsunami warnings from other nations’ buoys in the Indian Ocean this week after a huge earthquake off the west coast of Sumatra because its detection system was disabled, a senior disaster agency official said on Thursday.The earthquake struck on Wednesday night, had a magnitude of 7.8 and set off warnings in multiple countries, but it did not cause a tsunami. Indonesia’s warning system, completed in 2008, has not been operable since last year, said Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, a spokesman for the National Disaster Management Agency.Indonesia began deploying a chain of German-built buoys less than a year after the Indian Ocean tsunami of Dec. 26, 2004, which killed 230,000 people in more than a dozen countries, including around 177,000 in the Indonesian province of Aceh alone.In the years since the system became operable, there have been occasional reports about pirates and fishermen stealing parts from the buoys or hauling them away to sell for scrap.“There were 22 buoys, and as of last year, the last of them were not working due to them breaking down, or from theft or vandalism,” Mr. Sutopo said.







Today’s Headlines: Asia Edition
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning.




 



“And we don’t have funding for maintenance or to replace them,” he said.After the earthquake struck shortly before 8 p.m. on Wednesday, the country’s meteorology agency, which runs its tsunami warning center, transmitted a warning about a possible tsunami to the disaster management agency and other government bodies based on readings from its seismograph network, Mr. Sutopo said.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

He said Indonesia otherwise relied on rapid data from the United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and from warning systems run by Australia and Thailand.“It’s difficult to ask the disaster management agency to make sure a tsunami is not happening,” Mr. Sutopo said. “I think we need to build the buoy network again.”He said the cost for new buoys would be $300,000 to $600,000 each, depending on whether the Indonesian government bought units from the United States or built its own.It was nearly two hours before the Indonesian center called off its tsunami warning on Wednesday night, long after its neighbors Thailand and Australia.“We were still trying to check our tidal gauges to convince ourselves before canceling the announcement” about a possible tsunami, said Andi Eka Sakya, director general of the Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics Agency. “What we get is from the tidal gauges.”Although the quake caused neither injures nor significant property damage, it did dismay residents of the West Sumatra city of Padang; some fled to higher ground on foot or by motorcycle.

A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 2016, on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Indonesia’s Tsunami Sensors Were Down During Quake .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage






Big Earthquake Strikes Off Indonesia; Little Damage Reported
MARCH 2, 2016












ANEYOSHI JOURNAL 

On Stones in Japan, Tsunami Warnings — Aneyoshi Journal
APRIL 20, 2011









How Scientists and Victims Watched Helplessly (2004)









Thousands Die as Quake-Spawned Waves Crash Onto Coastlines Across Southern Asia (2004)
























Related Coverage







Big Earthquake Strikes Off Indonesia; Little Damage Reported
MARCH 2, 2016








ANEYOSHI JOURNAL 

On Stones in Japan, Tsunami Warnings — Aneyoshi Journal
APRIL 20, 2011













How Scientists and Victims Watched Helplessly (2004)









Thousands Die as Quake-Spawned Waves Crash Onto Coastlines Across Southern Asia (2004)









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















