
  




Ines de la Fressange, the New Parisian Shopkeeper - The New York Times
































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Fashion & Style|Ines de la Fressange, the New Parisian Shopkeeper



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1R2x7u9




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Fashion & Style 
Ines de la Fressange, the New Parisian Shopkeeper

By ELAINE SCIOLINOMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






The window display at Ines de la Fressange’s store in Paris.

Credit
            Agnes Dherbeys for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



PARIS — I wanted to be like Ines de la Fressange the first time I laid eyes on her.







It was March 1978 and I had just arrived in Paris from Chicago as a foreign correspondent for Newsweek magazine. Covering the ready-to-wear fashion shows was my first assignment.And there was Supermodel de la Fressange, bursting onto the runway like a force of nature. She wasn’t like Jerry Hall or Pat Cleveland, both seriously gorgeous and glamorous but too elusive for me. Ms. de la Fressange had the impish look of a coquette and a relaxed gait that enhanced her insouciance. She tossed back her head with abandon when she smiled, made eyes at her favorite photographers and jumped into the crowd to say hello to fashion reporters she knew. She didn’t strut on the runway. She owned it, as if it were her own private street.These days, Ms. de la Fressange — former face of Chanel and current face of L’Oréal and Roger Vivier, designer of a new collection for Uniqlo, daughter of a marquis, Legion of Honor recipient and best-selling author — has brought that same confidence to her role as the designer-owner of a Left Bank atelier-boutique that bears her name.
Photo






A portrait of Ms. de la Fressange on display.

Credit
            Agnes Dherbeys for The New York Times        


She took over a small decrepit foundry in a 19th-century building on the Rue de Grenelle in St.-Germain-des-Prés and restored it to its original glory. She repaired the skylight; patched and cleaned the parquet floors; and installed bright ceiling spotlights. She left the floor-to-ceiling glass-paned wooden cupboards as they were — even with their chipped black paint.The high-ceilinged space has been packed full of clothing, kitchenware, bedding, jewelry, toys, hardware, garden tools, fake passports, plaid paper straws and a shiny red bicycle stamped with the round logo “Ines de la Fressange.”You will find the same olive oil from Château de Montfrin that she uses at her country home in Provence, pottery in matte white made by a friend in Tunisia, hand-woven cotton pillowcases from a village in Guinea, Andrée Jardin brooms and Fifi Chachnil bras. A bouquet of giant brass safety pins sits in a vase; hang one on the wall and it becomes a rack for sunglasses and necklaces (25 euros, or about $27.50). You can spend as little as €4 for a 4-inch nail in dark- or gold-colored hammered metal.
Photo






The atelier at the rear of the store.

Credit
            Agnes Dherbeys for The New York Times        


“I wanted the feel of a hardware store,” Ms. de la Fressange said. “You come in looking for a brush but you never know what you might find.” Most of the items also are sold on the shop’s website.A glassed-in area at the back of the shop is reserved for the atelier, where seamstresses use vintage fabrics and colorful modern prints to sew the custom-made and one-of-a-kind clothes sold in the shop. (The limited, numbered editions and larger runs are made in Hungary.)“They’re not made in France; they’re made in Paris!” Ms. de la Fressange said.
Photo






A piece sold at the boutique.

Credit
            Agnes Dherbeys for The New York Times        


The clothing and accessories do not come cheap. Unadorned ballerina flats made in Italy are €270; a limited-edition flowered silk shirtdress, €620; a white T-shirt with the Ines logo is €75; and an intricately embroidered skirt, more than €2,000.Perhaps the best clothing buy is an €85 sheer pajama top that doubles as a blouse. (Rihanna bought one). The most creative item is a belted coatdress in a vintage pink metallic silk by Lanvin; the fabric has been turned inside out to reveal its shiny patterned side (€850).At 58, Ms. de la Fressange, the onetime muse of Karl Lagerfeld, has a new mantra: no guilt, no stress. She has substituted an electronic cigarette for tobacco (she was a heavy smoker) and taken to meditating every day. On the day I ran into her in her shop, she was dressed in her daytime uniform: jeans, black flat-tie shoes, a white shirt and navy blue cardigan. Her hair was uncombed, her makeup minimal (foundation, a bit of eye shadow and a lot of mascara).“I’m a shopaholic — now for a good cause,” she said. “I don’t know how to do things very seriously.”


A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 2016, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















