
  




Inside the List - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Book Review|Inside the List



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/21IOH1C




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Book Review 
Inside the List

By GREGORY COWLESMARCH 4, 2016


Inside








Photo






Debbie Macomber




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story








Diversions
A break from the day’s grimmer news.







                                Review: In ‘Scary Old Sex,’ Arlene Heyman Mines the Details            
MAR 8








                                Coming Home to Pot Roast            
MAR 8








                                Seven Ways of Seeing Beauty in Design            
MAR 8








                                Frank Zappa’s House Can Be Yours for $9 Million            
MAR 8








                                In Portland, Oregon, a Warm Embrace of Tango            
MAR 8






See More »



Step by Step: In her latest novel, “A Girl’s Guide to Moving On” — new at No. 2 on the hardcover fiction list — Debbie Macomber tells the story of a woman inspired to leave her own unhappy marriage when her daughter-in-law files for divorce; as they fumble toward independence, the two lean on each other for support and grow closer than they ever were as actual relatives. “A lot of my books have to do with forgiveness,” Macomber has said. “I don’t know why that’s so important to me, but it seems to be a common theme.” Macomber is a regular on the fiction list, often for series novels about knitting or Christmas or new beginnings (as this one is, although the only knitting in it involves the tangling of human limbs). But the work didn’t always come easy. “When I started out 35 years ago,” she told a newspaper in Savannah, Ga., recently, “I saw a quote from Phyllis Whitney: ‘There has never been an easy time to sell a book.’ I wanted this more than I ever wanted anything in my life. I got rejected so fast, my manuscripts would hit me in the back of the head on my way back from the post office.” But Macomber never gave up. “It has a lot to do with stubbornness and desire,” she said, adding that she similarly trained herself to run despite a lack of athletic ability. In both cases, “It was making myself stick to it until I could do it. It got to the point where it didn’t hurt anymore.”
Continue reading the main story







Book Review Newsletter
Sign up to receive a preview of each Sunday’s Book Review, delivered to your inbox every Friday. 








Reader in Chief: It’s not unusual for presidential candidates to spend time on the best-seller lists — of the current crop of White House hopefuls, only Bernie Sanders has never landed there (although he was represented on the paperback graphics list last month, by way of Ted Rall’s graphic biography “Bernie”). Forget how they are as authors, though. How are the candidates as readers? In terms of a passion for literature, anyway, probably not as good as the man they want to replace. Last year, during a memorable two-part interview with the novelist Marilynne Robinson for The New York Review of Books, President Obama declared that reading novels had taught him how to be a citizen. Hillary Clinton, meanwhile, only fleetingly mentions novels in her best-selling memoir “Living History”: once in reference to a speech by the Whitewater special prosecutor Kenneth Starr (who compared himself to Atticus Finch in “To Kill a Mockingbird”) and once in reference to the movie version of Toni Morrison’s “Beloved.” At least both of those books won the Pulitzer Prize. In Donald Trump’s best-selling “The Art of the Deal,” the only novel cited is Judith Krantz’s “I’ll Take Manhattan,” which is set at Trump Tower and features Trump himself as a character. “At Judy’s request, I agreed to play the role of myself in a scene from the mini-series,” he writes. “I figure it’s not a bad way to promote Trump Tower — on national television, in a mini-series that runs during sweeps week and is virtually guaranteed to get huge national ratings.”


A version of this article appears in print on March 13, 2016, on page BR22 of the Sunday Book Review.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















