
  




Using Video Surveillance to Catch the Neighbors - The New York Times

































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Home & Garden|Neighborhood Mischief Caught on Tape



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Home & Garden 
Neighborhood Mischief Caught on Tape

By KATE MURPHYNOV. 3, 2010


Inside










Photo






Adam Kliebert’s surveillance spot in Houston.

Credit
            Michael Stravato for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



STEVE MILLER is justifiably proud of the manicured grounds around his stately stucco home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. So he was nonplussed last year when he discovered that someone had been tossing plastic bags of dog excrement into the sculptured shrubs around a palm tree in his front yard.







“It was a pile of at least 10 bags,” said Mr. Miller, 55, who owned a dance costume business in Bristol, Pa.,  before retiring to Florida in 2005. “I had my suspicions, but wanted to find out for sure which one of my neighbors was doing it.”So Mr. Miller  went to a local electronics store and bought a $400 do-it-yourself video surveillance kit.  In so doing, he joined the ranks of outraged homeowners who are recording their neighbors’ misdeeds. Attracted by the declining prices and technological advances of such devices, these homeowners are posting the videos online to shame their neighbors or using them as evidence to press charges.

With their cameras hidden in bushes or dangling from windows, these homeowners are outing not just littering dog owners, but also    bottle snatchers and car scratchers. Although Mr. Miller’s surveillance system came with two motion-activated cameras, he used only one of them, anchoring it with a zip tie to a concrete balustrade outside an upstairs window and running the wire inside, where he plugged it into a DVR.
Photo






Steve Miller in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.

Credit
            Oscar Hidalgo for The New York Times        


A month’s worth of video footage clearly showed one of his neighbors slinging bags of dog feces into his yard.   “You’d see him come from all directions and even turn around afterwards — like I was his dumping destination and not just a convenient stop on his way,” said Mr. Miller, who showed the video evidence to his community’s security patrol. “They were stunned, and wrote the guy a citation for improper waste disposal, littering and leash law violations.”Moreover, the neighbor had to pick up all that he had tossed. Mr. Miller also had some fun at the neighbor’s expense,   posting a video on YouTube  with a suitably silly soundtrack and  narration. The video has had more than 4,000 views.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
“He never apologized, so that’s why I posted it,” Mr. Miller said. “But I did wait until after he moved.”There are countless videos online that are intended to settle scores between neighbors. Whereas such disputes were once  confined to  the individuals involved, now they can have a much wider audience, whose members often take sides and post  comments.Take Adam Kliebert, 41, a real estate developer in Houston, who last year trained a video camera on his driveway in an attempt to catch his neighbor, Woody Densen, a former state district judge,  scratching the back of his car. The video, which was posted online and delivered to the police, shows Mr. Densen walking behind the vehicle. Although the front of the car obscures the former judge’s actions, he pleaded guilty last April to criminal mischief, a misdemeanor, and paid for $3,000 worth of damages to Mr. Kliebert’s Range Rover.  The video has been viewed more than 3,000 times.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Robert Pelton, the lawyer for Mr. Densen, said he did not damage the car and pleaded guilty only in order to avoid trial.
Photo






Kenneth Gore of Pinellas Park, Fla.

Credit
            Melissa Lyttle for The New York Times        


Mr. Kliebert was still  out the $2,000 he paid for the surveillance equipment.  But, he said: “I don’t care. I wanted to catch him, and he knows it’s there so he won’t try anything.”  Despite a history of animosity that predates the car incident, the two men remain neighbors.Prices for surveillance equipment have been falling for the past five years; systems that  once cost thousands of dollars now cost hundreds. Popular do-it-yourself kits by manufacturers like Logitech, Swann, Defender and Lorex currently cost between $150 and $2,500, depending on the number of cameras, digital storage capacity, wireless capability and whether a monitor is included.Moreover, many of these systems can now transmit to smartphones, so that people can watch activity on their property remotely. There are also apps that alert homeowners when video equipment detects motion in a particular area, such as  near a car or beneath a beloved palm tree.  Executives at Swann, Lorex and other makers of do-it-yourself surveillance systems report that  sales are now evenly split between businesses and residences. Five years ago,  they said, only  20 percent of sales were to homeowners.

Another option for  do-it-yourself surveillance is free software, like SupervisionCam,  which will turn any computer’s Webcam into a motion-activated video camera. It works by detecting the changes in pixelation that occur when something moves and alters the scene. Kenneth Gore, 43, an unemployed welder who lives in Pinellas Park, Fla., used the software to document a neighbor’s cats prowling and fouling the yard around his mobile home.Mr. Gore  not only  recorded the cats but also discovered  neighbors  looking in his windows while he was away. After he showed the video to the manager of the mobile home park, Mr. Gore said, “The trespassing stopped, because they know they’re being filmed.” (Trespassers will also get soaked by a motion-activated sprinkler Mr. Gore bought to drive away the cats.)Mr. Gore posted videos of his nosy neighbors  and of the sprinkler squirting the cats on YouTube. One video has  funny captions,  and music from the vintage British television comedy “The Benny Hill Show.”  The other is narrated by the cartoon character Tweety Bird: “I tawt I taw a puddy tat!” The two have had more than 43,000 views.
Photo






Jay Risner of St. Clair Shores, Mich.

Credit
            Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times        




“A lot of people get mean, posting videos like that,” said Mr. Gore. “I thought it was better to be humorous.”Do his videos anger his neighbors?  “There ain’t much they can do about it,” he said.Indeed, the law seems to be on Mr. Gore’s side because he recorded only what was happening in his yard. “It matters how you’re doing it and why, but generally it’s true that you can film your own property as well as anything that is in public view,” said David Ardia, director of the Citizen Media Law Project at Harvard’s Berkman Center for Internet and Society.  “It’s when you extend your senses into unexpected places, like using a telephoto to film what’s going on in your neighbor’s bedroom, that you could run into trouble.”
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Representatives of neighborhood security patrols, police departments and animal protection agencies said that video has helped them deal with situations that, in the past, would have been one neighbor’s word against another’s. “It’s hard to argue with video evidence,” said Officer Bruce Borihanh,  a spokesman for the Los Angeles Police Department. “And it’s a powerful deterrent if people consider their actions could end up on YouTube.”Video evidence led to the arrest of Jay Risner’s neighbor in St. Clair Shores, Mich.  Mr. Risner, 29, an engineer for a phone company, noticed laundry detergent and redeemable  bottles disappearing from his basement shortly after a new neighbor moved into his condominium complex in 2008. “I thought it was him, but you need proof before the cops can do anything,” Mr. Risner said.Using a $400 wireless surveillance system, Mr. Risner set up a camera in the basement and got his proof.  Within two days, he had video of his neighbor entering his basement and rooting around, which he posted online earlier this year, after both he and his neighbor had moved.

“The video doesn’t show him actually taking anything,” Mr. Risner said, “but it was enough for the police to arrest him for home invasion and take him to jail.”The neighbor was ordered to pay restitution for what he had stolen as well as for a new door lock for Mr. Risner’s basement —  since the old one was obviously easy to pick.  At his new house, Mr. Risner has  installed  surveillance cameras that are trained on both the front and back doors.“I’m not sure now,” he said, “whether to worry more about my neighbors or strangers.”


A version of this article appears in print on November 4, 2010, on page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Vandal Next Door.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















