
  




Iowa Caucuses: What to Watch For - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





The Upshot|Iowa Caucuses: What to Watch For



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Klfadm




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement







Edited by David Leonhardt
Follow Us:




Visit The Upshot on Facebook





Visit The Upshot on Twitter





Follow The Upshot via RSS



Get the Upshot in your Inbox

The Upshot




Supported by



                                                                                        Primary Sources                                    
Iowa Caucuses: What to Watch For








Nate Cohn



@Nate_Cohn

FEB. 1, 2016



Inside










Photo







Credit
            Franziska Barczyk        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Voters in Iowa cast the first ballots of the 2016 presidential election in caucuses across the state on Monday. Polls show a close race in both Democratic and Republican contests.







Hillary Clinton is leading Bernie Sanders by around three percentage points, and Donald Trump is ahead of Ted Cruz by a more comfortable eight-point margin. Marco Rubio holds a strong third place in the Republican race at around 15 percent. Here’s a guide to understanding the results.Watch the TurnoutPolling, of course, is not perfect. It’s more challenging in primaries than in general elections, because there are far more undecided voters and turnout is more unpredictable. It’s even harder in an early caucus; the turnout is especially variable and the views of voters are unsettled between many more candidates than remain in later states.

It would not be particularly surprising if either Mr. Cruz or Mr. Sanders went on to win tonight. Turnout is a critical question in both races, and polls always struggle to anticipate the composition of the electorate. Polls show Mr. Cruz and Mrs. Clinton faring well among traditional caucus-goers, and Mr. Sanders and Mr. Trump faring best among those with no prior participation.Two new polls on the Republican side added still more intrigue this morning, showing Mr. Trump ahead by just 1 percentage point over Mr. Cruz, with Mr. Rubio faring better than he had in any recent polling. Neither poll is especially well regarded, but could reflect late-breaking changes that often occur ahead of the caucuses.Recognize Iowa’s Political DiversityIowa’s position at the start of the primary calendar is often under attack, in no small part because the state is not especially diverse. But Iowa’s demographic homogeneity obscures considerable political diversity, and the results tonight will give a strong sense of the political coalitions of the major candidates — and their shortcomings.Iowa’s politics often split between the state’s east and west. The eastern part of the state is more liberal, with cities like Cedar Rapids and Des Moines, which have relatively well-educated citizens, and liberal college towns like Iowa City, Ames and Cedar Falls.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
But what makes eastern Iowa so distinctive is the Democratic Party’s strength among rural, white voters. That’s because the eastern half of the state, especially in the so-called driftless region along the Mississippi River, has fewer evangelical Christians than just about anywhere in the country outside the Northeast. Nationally, Republicans lose among nonevangelical white voters, especially outside the South, and so they do here.
Continue reading the main story


            Obama and Romney’s Iowa Equation        

            Evangelicals and the college educated help explain the state's east-west divide in the 2012 presidential election        










Evangelicals tended to lean toward Romney…

+

Pct. identifying as evangelical


1%







35%




… while the college educated tended to support Obama…

Pct. with a college degree


16%







53%




… which helped define the variation in the 2012 election.

Vote margin in the 2012 general election.


Stronger Romney






Stronger Obama















Republicans fare far better in the rural, western part of the state. The number of evangelical Christians generally is near the national average, which gives Republicans an edge among white voters — as is the case nationally. The Republicans have made gains in the western half of the state in recent decades, but not enough to overcome more modest Democratic gains in the state’s more populous eastern half — at least in six of the last seven presidential elections.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
These same divides show up in partisan primaries. Liberal Democrats and moderate Republicans tend to fare best in the eastern part of Iowa, while conservative Republicans and moderate Democrats excel farther west. It’s a pattern that has repeated itself in almost every contest, and it will probably appear again tonight.How Democrats Split

In the Democratic race, the state’s liberal-conservative split could easily be widened by one of the biggest demographic divides in the race: age. Mrs. Clinton fares best among older voters, while Mr. Sanders excels among the young. Rural Iowa has lost population in recent decades, and the rural areas are generally far older than the liberal college towns and metropolitan areas.
Continue reading the main story


            Clinton and Obama’s Iowa Equation        

            County differences in age and education help define the 2008 Democratic caucus in Iowa        










Older counties tended to lean toward Clinton…


Pct. age 65 or older


1%







31%




…while college students tended to lean toward Obama…


Pct. college students


5%







33%




…which helped define the variation in the 2008 Democratic caucus.

Margin for the 2008 Democratic caucus


Stronger Clinton






Stronger Obama











Eight years ago, Barack Obama won college towns and metropolitan areas by wide margins. But he was still very competitive in rural Iowa, and even outperformed Mrs. Clinton in wide stretches of the more conservative western half of the state. Whether Mr. Sanders can broaden his appeal beyond liberal bastions and college towns, as Mr. Obama did, to anything near the same extent will be a crucial test of his viability.Mr. Sanders appears to hold a substantial lead in New Hampshire, so an Iowa victory would put him in an excellent position to sweep the first two states. Whether that would be enough to propel him past Mrs. Clinton would hinge on whether he could make significant gains among nonwhite voters, who represent 40 percent of the Democratic primary electorate. In polling, nonwhite voters back Mrs. Clinton by overwhelming margins so far, but back-to-back wins in Iowa and New Hampshire would at least give Mr. Sanders a chance to reduce her advantage.
Continue reading the main story


            Romney and Santorum’s Iowa Equation        

            People of Dutch ancestry in the northwest and higher-income families in the east helped define the 2012 G.O.P. caucus        







 
Santorum did particularly well among people with Dutch ancestry…

Pct. with Dutch ancestry


0%







43%




… while wealthier families tended to support Romney…

Pct. of families earning more than $100k


10%







42%




…which helped define the variation in the 2012 Republican caucus.

Margin for the 2012 G.O.P. caucus


Stronger Santorum






Stronger Romney











            Quoctrung Bui        




Demystifying G.O.P. GeographyThe geography of the Republican race is more of a mystery — and it’s one of the biggest things we’ll learn on election night. It seems obvious where Mr. Cruz should fare well: the very conservative and religious western half of the state, and especially the ancestrally Dutch areas where the most conservative candidates often win by wide margins.It’s also fairly evident that a more moderate establishment-backed candidate, like Mr. Rubio, ought to fare well among more affluent Republicans in metropolitan eastern Iowa, and especially in the suburbs to the west of Des Moines.But exactly where Mr. Trump should do well is unclear. His support, which is generally strong across the state, breaks traditional demographic divides. Perhaps he should be expected to do best in the areas where neither Mr. Cruz nor Mr. Rubio would seem to have an edge, like in rural eastern Iowa, but we won’t know until the results come in.What’s clear is that a victory for Mr. Trump would put him in an extremely strong position, especially for a candidate with significant weaknesses. He is likely to win New Hampshire, regardless of the result in Iowa, and back-to-back victories would give him a legitimate chance to steamroll to the nomination over an extremely divided field.A loss for Mr. Cruz wouldn’t end his chances — he has a strong national organization and a natural appeal to those who describe themselves as “very conservative,” one of the party’s largest and most committed factions. But the Iowa caucus electorate is as conservative as it gets. It is far more conservative than in the primary states in the South, where his campaign hopes to do well. If he can’t pull off a win in Iowa, it will be hard to explain why he should be expected to fare better elsewhere.

A key side story will be the outcome for Mr. Rubio. A strong third place or even a surprise second-place finish might give him the momentum he needs to break the deadlock among the other major mainstream Republican candidates competing in New Hampshire: Jeb Bush, John Kasich and Chris Christie.If Mr. Trump wins tonight, the party’s establishment will be in a race against time to winnow the field of mainstream Republicans before South Carolina or Super Tuesday; a strong performance by Mr. Rubio could assist it greatly in that effort.The doors at the Iowa caucuses close at 8 p.m. Eastern time, when the caucuses begin.


The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















