
  




U.S. Tourist Killed in Stabbing Rampage Near Tel Aviv - The New York Times






































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Middle East|U.S. Tourist Killed in Stabbing Rampage Near Tel Aviv



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1R4tfc1




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Middle East 
U.S. Tourist Killed in Stabbing Rampage Near Tel Aviv

By DIAA HADIDMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Continue reading the main story
Video

Aftermath of Attack in Israel


A witness described an attack in the ancient port of Jaffa, a suburb of Tel Aviv. Mayor Ron Huldai of Tel Aviv told Army Radio about the attack, saying that a terrorist ran along the boardwalk and “on his way he indiscriminately stabbed people,” Reuters reported.

                    By REUTERS on                                                                Publish Date March 8, 2016.
                                    

                                            Photo by Jim Hollander/European Pressphoto Agency.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed












Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



RAMALLAH, West Bank — A Palestinian on a stabbing rampage along a coastal promenade near Tel Aviv on Tuesday killed an American tourist, the city’s mayor said.The mayor of Tel Aviv-Jaffa, Ron Huldai, said that the attacks occurred along a popular seaside boulevard in Jaffa, about a mile away from where Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was meeting with Israel’s former president, Shimon Peres.The stabbing attacks, carried out over 20 minutes, came just after Mr. Biden arrived for a two-day visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories, where he is expected to meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority on Wednesday.On Tuesday evening, Mr. Biden was at the Peres Center for Peace in Jaffa, a serene seaside district that adjoins Tel Aviv, when a Palestinian man ran down a popular boulevard attacking groups of people, Israeli media reported. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Deep Rifts Among Israeli Jews Are Found in Religion SurveyMARCH 8, 2016











New Proposal to Divide Jerusalem Unites People Against ItMARCH 6, 2016







A video shot by a witness and posted on YouTube by Haaretz, an Israeli daily newspaper, showed a skinny man wearing a hoodie running down the Jaffa promenade, lunging at passengers in passing vehicles. An unseen person could be heard yelling in Hebrew: “Terrorist! Terrorist!”The assailant killed a 29-year-old American tourist and critically injured his wife, according to the Israeli news website Ynet, and injured eight others before he was shot dead by the police.The stabbings were part of a day of violence in which five people were killed, including the American tourist, three Palestinian attackers and a 50-year-old Palestinian woman who tried to lunge at security forces with a knife.In addition to Tuesday’s victims, a five-month surge in violence has killed nearly 30 Israelis, a Palestinian bystander and an American student. About 180 Palestinians have also been killed, most while attempting attacks, or while suspected of attempting attacks. One of the attackers was a Palestinian-American teenage boy from Tampa, Fla.Israeli media identified the assailant on Tuesday as a 22-year-old Palestinian man from the West Bank. The attack was unusual because it occurred in Jaffa, a celebrated coastal area where Arabs and Jews often mix along the usually crowded seaside boulevards.Earlier in the day, a Palestinian man opened fire on the Israeli police on East Jerusalem’s main commercial thoroughfare, setting off a gun battle in an area usually crowded with shoppers and schoolchildren. The attacker, identified by Israeli media as Fouad Tamimi, 25, was killed, and two Israeli police officers were wounded.Less than an hour before the shooting, a Palestinian man stabbed a Jewish man in the neck in Petah Tikva, a city near Tel Aviv. The victim pulled the knife out of his own neck and used it to kill his attacker, Israel’s Channel 2 reported.On Tuesday morning, a 50-year-old Palestinian woman tried to lunge at Israeli security forces in Jerusalem’s walled Old City with a knife. The woman, who was identified as Fadwa Abu Teir, from a nearby Palestinian village, was shot and killed.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















