
  




Judge Tells Apple to Help Unlock iPhone Used by San Bernardino Gunman - The New York Times







































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Judge Tells Apple to Help Unlock iPhone Used by San Bernardino Gunman



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/20D1sF8




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Judge Tells Apple to Help Unlock iPhone Used by San Bernardino Gunman

By ERIC LICHTBLAUFEB. 16, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Timothy D. Cook, the chief executive of Apple, released a letter to customers several hours after a California judge ordered the company to unlock an iPhone used by one of the shooters in a recent attack that killed 14 people in San Bernardino.

Credit
            Jeff Chiu/Associated Press        


WASHINGTON — A judge in California on Tuesday ordered Apple to help the F.B.I. unlock an iPhone used by one of the attackers in the assault in San Bernardino that killed 14 people in December.The ruling handed the F.B.I. a potentially important victory in its long-running battle with Apple and other Silicon Valley companies over the government’s ability to get access to encrypted data in investigations. Apple has maintained that requiring it to provide the “keys” to its technology would compromise the security of the information of hundreds of millions of users.The F.B.I. says that its experts have been unable to get into the iPhone 5c used by Syed Rizwan Farook, who was killed by the police along with his wife, Tashfeen Malik, after they attacked Mr. Farook’s co-workers at a holiday gathering.Prosecutors said in a court filing that Apple had the “exclusive” means to bypass the security features on the phone, but that the company had “declined to provide that assistance voluntarily.” F.B.I. experts say that because of the phone’s security features, they risk losing the data permanently after 10 failed attempts to enter the password.The Justice Department had secured a search warrant for the phone, which is owned by Mr. Farook’s former employer, the San Bernardino County Department of Public Health. But prosecutors said they saw little choice but to seek the additional order compelling Apple’s assistance. 










            What Investigators Know About the San Bernardino Shooting        


In an unusually detailed directive, Magistrate Judge Sheri Pym of the Federal District Court for the District of Central California ordered Apple to provide “reasonable technical assistance” to the F.B.I. in unlocking the phone. That assistance should allow investigators to “bypass or erase the auto-erase function” on the phone, among other steps, she wrote.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

In a statement, Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said the company would oppose the order and resist efforts to provide a “back door” to the iPhone, and he called the implications of the government’s demands “chilling.”“For many years, we have used encryption to protect our customers’ personal data because we believe it’s the only way to keep their information safe,” the company said in the statement. “We have even put that data out of our own reach, because we believe the contents of your iPhone are none of our business.”Prosecutors said the contents of the phone could provide crucial evidence about the attackers’ communications and contacts before the shooting.The husband and wife appear to have been motivated by a devotion to violent jihad, but the authorities have not connected them publicly to any extremists overseas. Enrique Marquez, a friend and former neighbor, has been charged with providing them with the assault weapons used in the attack and conspiring with Mr. Farook in an earlier plot that was not carried out.Eileen M. Decker, the United States attorney in Los Angeles, where the investigation is being handled, said the effort to compel Apple’s technical cooperation marked “another step — a potentially important step — in the process of learning everything we possibly can about the attack in San Bernardino.” 








                    OPEN Graphic                



            Graphic: How They Got Their Guns        


Prosecutors “have made a solemn commitment to the victims and their families that we will leave no stone unturned as we gather as much information and evidence as possible,” Ms. Decker said.James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, has been at odds with Apple and other technology companies for months over whether they should provide de-encryption technology for their products. Without it, he has argued, the bureau is at risk of “going dark” in its investigations. The Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and most of the Republican hopefuls support Mr. Comey’s stance.Apple and other technology companies say that creating an opening in their products for government investigators would also create a vulnerability that Chinese, Iranian, Russian or North Korean hackers could exploit.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Apple, arguing in December against a British proposal that could force it to provide the government with a way into iPhone communications, said the dispute should not be seen “as an all-or-nothing proposition for law enforcement.”“Nothing could be further from the truth,” Apple argued. “Law enforcement today has access to more data — data which they can use to prevent terrorist attacks, solve crimes and help bring perpetrators to justice — than ever before in the history of our world.”Apple said that “we believe it would be wrong to weaken security for hundreds of millions of law-abiding customers so that it will also be weaker for the very few who pose a threat.”

A version of this article appears in print on February 17, 2016, on page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Judge Tells Apple to Help Unlock Gunman’s iPhone.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










After a Massacre, San Bernardino Police Stare Down Crippling Cuts
FEB. 2, 2016













Enrique Marquez Pleads Not Guilty in San Bernardino Massacre Case
JAN. 6, 2016













Help Sought to Close 18-Minute Gap in San Bernardino Inquiry
JAN. 5, 2016













Visa Form Adds Details on How San Bernardino Attacker Met Wife
DEC. 22, 2015













San Bernardino Shooting Kills at Least 14; Two Suspects Are Dead
DEC. 2, 2015
























Related Coverage







After a Massacre, San Bernardino Police Stare Down Crippling Cuts
FEB. 2, 2016













Enrique Marquez Pleads Not Guilty in San Bernardino Massacre Case
JAN. 6, 2016













Help Sought to Close 18-Minute Gap in San Bernardino Inquiry
JAN. 5, 2016















Visa Form Adds Details on How San Bernardino Attacker Met Wife
DEC. 22, 2015













San Bernardino Shooting Kills at Least 14; Two Suspects Are Dead
DEC. 2, 2015












Show All





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















