



Judge Says 'Megan's Law' Must Tighten Notification - NYTimes.com































































.NYT5Style .masthead-tools #bar1-button  {
    display: inline;
    vertical-align: top;
}
#bar1-button {
    border:none;
    position: relative;
}
.bar1_hover {
    opacity: 0;
}
.sub_small_hide {
    display: none;
}
#bar1-button > a {
    -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
    background-color: #6288A5;
    border: 1px solid #4D7B9F;
    border-radius: 3px;
    color: #fff !important;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 1em;
    font-weight: bold;
    font-family: nyt-franklin,nyt-franklin-1,'Helvetica Neue',Arial,sans-serif;
    padding: 7px 10px 6px;
    text-transform: uppercase;
    text-decoration: none;
}
#bar1-button > a:hover {
    background-color: #326891;
    border: 1px solid #265E8B;
    text-decoration: none;
}

/* EXCLUDING NYT4 INTERACTIVES */
#interactiveABC #bar1-button {
   display: none;
}


Subscribe Now


Subscribe

campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global


NYTD.loadEditionToggle();

window.setTimeout(function() {
  var login = document.getElementById('memberToolsLogin');
  if (login) {
    login.href += "?URI=" + window.location.href;
  }
}, 0)







Search All NYTimes.com










N.Y. / Region





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








Judge Says 'Megan's Law' Must Tighten Notification


By ROBERT HANLEY


Published: January 28, 2000









HACKENSACK, N.J., Jan. 27— 
                    New Jersey, one of the first states to require that the public be alerted to the presence of paroled sex offenders, now appears to be the first to face a new type of legal hurdle: a ruling that its ''Megan's Law'' is failing to keep information about the offenders from reaching people not entitled to it.        

                    Ruling in a two-and-a-half-year-old lawsuit by the New Jersey public defender, long a foe of the 1994 law, a federal judge in Camden said this week that New Jersey's rules on public notification infringed on the privacy rights of some paroled sex offenders by not preventing the unauthorized disclosure of their names, addresses and other personal information to people not legally authorized to have it.        

                    The judge, Joseph E. Irenas of United States District Court, ordered the state's Attorney General, John J. Farmer Jr., to redraw those rules, and suggested that the law could eventually be found unconstitutional if the revised rules failed to ''reasonably limit disclosure to those entitled to receive it.''        

                    The decision, issued Tuesday, means that New Jersey's law, already one of the nation's most restrictive on public notification, must be tightened further. Other states have far more leeway in alerting the public; Connecticut, for example, posts the names and addresses of all paroled sex offenders on a World Wide Web site.        

                    Such laws have been unsuccessfully challenged in many states, including New Jersey, on the ground that they are unconstitutional because they impose an additional punishment on offenders who have already served their time. But this week's  ruling is believed to be the first to address contentions that unauthorized public warnings violate the privacy rights of the parolees, lawyers for both sides said.        

                    State officials said today that they had not decided whether to appeal.        

                    Judge Irenas accepted the argument by a deputy public defender, Michael Z. Buncher, that the state's current rules on public notification failed to protect the rights of 45 paroled offenders. Mr. Buncher had  contended that their names, addresses, photographs and other information had been improperly posted in fliers in day care centers and schools, and on telephone poles and church bulletin boards, as well as printed in newspapers and given to people, including children, not authorized by county judges or prosecutors to receive the information.        

                    In one case Judge Irenas cited, the child of a school principal took home a flier about an offender distributed at the child's school, and the principal then took the flier to her school and improperly distributed it to parents.        

                    Judge Irenas said the 45 cases  violated notification restrictions the New Jersey Supreme Court imposed in 1995 when it upheld the constitutionality of the law. New Jersey's Legislature passed the law in October 1994 during a public furor over the murder of Megan Kanka, 7, by a twice-convicted sex offender who lived near her home in Hamilton Township, near Trenton.        

                    Initially, the law permitted communitywide notification about the parolees living in towns. The 1995 ruling banned such broad alerts and ordered restrictions intended to achieve a better balance between privacy rights and public safety.        

                    Under the ruling, information about offenders whom prosecutors deemed the greatest risk of committing a new sex crime could be circulated to immediate neighbors, schools, day care centers, women's shelters and other organizations that cared for women and children. Notifications about those considered moderate risks was limited to schools, day care centers and women's shelters.        

                    The 1995 decision also tightened the guidelines used to classify offenders as high and moderate risks. Because of those changes, almost two-thirds of paroled sex offenders in New Jersey are classified now as low risks and no information about them or their whereabouts can be distributed to the general public.        

                    Connecticut and New York allow far broader distribution of information about paroled sex offenders. For the last year, the names of all those in Connecticut have been available on the Internet, regardless of risk they pose, said the state's attorney general, Richard Blumenthal. He said two parolees had challenged the Internet site in court on various constitutional grounds. Connecticut's law also allows anyone to inspect directories listing all sex offenders at all local police stations.        

                    In New York State, directories of high-risk offenders are available to anyone at local police stations. New York State also operates a telephone database that provides a caller information about a high-risk offender if the caller provides the parolee's name and address.        

                    Judge Irenas said the attorney general's office had done an ''admirable'' job of addressing various state and federal court rulings that have ordered revisions to the law. He also said it was impossible to prevent all unauthorized disclosures.        

                    ''A system of distributing this information with zero leakage to unauthorized people is, in reality, unattainable,'' the judge said. ''However, the mandate for the attorney general is not to devise a perfect system but one calculated to achieve the goals of the statute without unreasonably impinging on the nontrivial privacy rights'' of parolees.        

                    Judge Irenas criticized the existing rules because, he said, they did not guarantee a uniform method of distributing notifications in New Jersey's 21 counties. He also noted that no New Jersey judge had found anyone in contempt of court for improperly circulating information about a parolee, even though state officials overseeing the law have routinely said that contempt citations were the best way to prevent improper disclosures.        








 














 



















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback







var dcsvid = "";
var regstatus = "non-registered";





campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Inv1
