
  




Killing of Pilot Highlights Tanzania’s Struggle With Poachers - The New York Times












































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Africa|Killing of Pilot Highlights Tanzania’s Struggle With Poachers



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QUjQIF




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Africa 
Killing of Pilot Highlights Tanzania’s Struggle With Poachers

By WILLY LOWRY and JEFFREY GETTLEMANFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






An elephant in Mikumi National Park in Tanzania. Tanzania’s elephant population has been decimated by poaching, to just 43,000 now from 109,000 in 2011.

Credit
            Daniel Hayduk/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



ARUSHA, Tanzania — Roger Gower, an experienced British helicopter pilot, was flying low over a wildlife reserve near the Serengeti National Park in Tanzania on Friday, searching for signs of poaching, when he spotted an elephant carcass. He circled back for a closer look.Then gunshots rang out from below. Apparently he had happened on the carcass just after the elephant had been killed, and the poachers were still on the scene.A bullet punctured the underside of the helicopter and sliced through Mr. Gower’s leg and shoulder. He managed to crash-land the helicopter, but died of his injuries soon afterward.“It’s tragic, what happened, but this is the reality of what’s going on,” said Frank Pope, the chief operations officer for Save the Elephants, a prominent wildlife organization in neighboring Kenya. “You’ve got desperate people who are armed and committing a crime. When you’re doing antipoaching operations, you’re on the sharp end.”Dozens of wildlife rangers have been killed in recent years across Africa, as elephant poaching has reached a frenzied pitch. Tens of thousands of elephants have been slaughtered for their ivory by the poachers, who have grown increasingly militarized and more ruthless.Tanzanian officials said on Monday that they were closing in on the poachers who shot at Mr. Gower’s helicopter, and that they had already arrested several accomplices, including two who the authorities said had helped hide the poachers.According to Pratik Patel of the Friedkin Conservation Fund, a nonprofit wildlife charity that employed Mr. Gower as a pilot, the suspects in the shooting are Tanzanian and have poached in the area before. “We know their names,” Mr. Patel said.Tanzania’s elephant population has declined drastically because of poaching, to just 43,000 in 2014 from 109,000 in 2009.The country’s National and Transnational Serious Crimes Investigation Unit has arrested several high-profile suspects recently, including Yang Feng Glan, a Chinese woman who Tanzanian officials say is “the ivory queen,” responsible for exporting thousands of tons of ivory to China. She is awaiting trial in Dar es Salaam, the country’s largest city.Both poachers and wildlife rangers across Africa have turned to military-style tactics. In October, poachers killed three rangers and a military officer who were conducting an antipoaching operation in Garamba National Park in the Democratic Republic of Congo.Wayne Lotter, the director of the PAMS Foundation, a nonprofit organization that supports antipoaching efforts in Tanzania, said that elephant poaching in the country decreased in 2015 but that it remained a serious problem.“The more you go after them,” Mr. Lotter said, “the more situations where confrontation between poachers and rangers will take place. There are going to be risks.”Mr. Gower, originally from Birmingham, England, had spent much of the last decade working in East Africa, often flying antipoaching patrols, a mission his friends said he believed in deeply.“Very reliable, very safe pilot,” said Tom Lithgow, who knew Mr. Gower from a previous wildlife job. “He was a special character, he had a great sense of humor, he loved cricket and he loved his family.”


Willy Lowry reported from Arusha, Tanzania, and Jeffrey Gettleman from Nairobi, Kenya.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















