
  




Le Coq Rico Captures Essence of a Parisian Poultry Palace - The New York Times













































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Food|Le Coq Rico Captures Essence of a Parisian Poultry Palace



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QJtiL7




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Food 
Le Coq Rico Captures Essence of a Parisian Poultry Palace



Off the Menu 
By                     
 FLORENCE FABRICANT
 
MARCH 8, 2016



Inside








Photo






Antoine Westermann of Le Coc Rico.

Credit
            Cassandra Giraldo for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Headliner












Off the Menu








                                Peter Grünauer Is Back on the Upper East Side            
MAR 1








                                Estela Owners Branch Out With Café Altro Paradiso            
FEB 23








                                Salvation Burger in Turtle Bay Joins the Family            
FEB 9








                                Kossar’s Returns With Bagels and Bialys on the Lower East Side            
FEB 2








                                Poké, a Hawaiian Specialty, Emerges in Chelsea            
JAN 26






See More »



Le Coq Rico Antoine Westermann, the Alsatian chef who once had three Michelin stars, has created a New York incarnation of his Parisian poultry palace. It occupies two storefronts, one with a long bar and the other a stretch of counter with a battalion of rotisseries and some seating, joined by a spacious rear dining room. Mr. Westermann has had some practice operating a restaurant in the United States. He ran the Café du Parc in Washington and became familiar with local farmers. He is a fan of our heritage chickens from small farms; his menu even lists how many days it took to raise each one (the longer the better). “In France, it’s poulet de Bresse,” he said, referring to the chickens with blue feet, “but here there are other breeds that can replicate the taste of Paris.” There are also guinea fowl, Cornish hens, ducks and squab, as well as poultry livers, egg dishes and a traditional Alsatian baeckeoffe casserole: (Opens Thursday): 30 East 20th Street, 212-267-7426, lecoqriconyc.com.
Continue reading the main story




        Follow NYT Food's board Food News on Pinterest. 



OpeningBelle Shoals There is no such town in the Deep South, but Josh Mazza and Steve Laycock, the owners, invented the plausible name and tailor the ambience with a vintage Wurlitzer and a menu of hush puppies, po’ boys, biscuits with bourbon butter and drinks like Sazeracs and mint juleps: 10 Hope Street (Roebling Street), Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-218-6027, belleshoals.com.Freds at Barneys On the top floor of the resuscitated Barneys in Chelsea is a new edition of the restaurant that has been run by Mark Strausman in the Madison Avenue store for years. In a modern setting dominated by a bright mural, the food combines uptown standards like chopped chicken salad and pizza margherita with new dishes, including avocado toast, ceviche, rigatoni with brisket ragù, and late-afternoon cocktail tidbits: 101 Seventh Avenue (17th Street), 646-264-6402.Perla Cafe Two weeks ago, Gabriel Stulman closed Perla, on Minetta Lane, to move it into a space that was closer to the rest of his portfolio. It is about to reopen, with the chef Jack Harris still in place, offering pastas, meat, seafood and vegetables. There will also be a pastry chef, Lindsey Prokscha, and a streamlined reservation system: 234 West Fourth Street (West 10th Street), 212-933-1824, perlanyc.com.Studio Kraut A lounge, a cabaret and a dining room with German comfort food like crispy sauerbraten wings, chicken schnitzel and bratwurst coexist in an arty setting: 160 Eighth Avenue (18th Street), 646-449-8150, studiokrautnyc.com.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Temerario and Café Bamba One of two new offerings from the Jorge Guzman Hospitality Group, Temerario serves refined Mexican street food, with choices like Puebla-style tacos, smoked marlin tostadas and chiles rellenos from Taxco. Its little sibling around the corner, Café Bamba, is open all day with a more general menu of sandwiches, eggs and salads for eating in or taking out: Temerario, 198 Eighth Avenue (20th Street), 212-645-2100, temerarionyc.com; Café Bamba, 265 West 20th Street, 212-741-2398, cafebambanyc.com. ClosedApplewood This Park Slope, Brooklyn, restaurant has shut for good. The owners, David and Laura Shea, now live upstate and said they could no longer handle the commute.Chefs on the MoveVinicius Campos, formerly at Fitzcarraldo in Bushwick, Brooklyn, is now the executive chef at Wassail Restaurant and Cider Bar on the Lower East Side.Gordon Finn, who was the executive chef at Ristorante Morini on the Upper East Side, is now the executive chef at Quality Italian in Midtown.Catherine Medrano is the new chef at the Regency Bar & Grill. She was awarded the job by Loews Hotels after it took over the restaurant from the Sant Ambroeus team, Gherardo Guarducci and Dimitri Pauli, who had been in charge since it reopened two years ago. Sant Ambroeus will continue to operate the cafe and gelateria on the East 61st Street side of the hotel.Looking AheadItalienne Food rooted in Northern Italy, Southern France and other nearby regions will be the work of Jared Sippel, who was supposed to be the chef at the restaurant going into the Manhattan branch of Brooklyn Fare, which has yet to open. No longer cooling his heels, Mr. Sippel will be ready in late spring with four-course tasting menus in a refined setting that will have a rustic front-room taverna: 19 West 24th Street.Jean-Georges Vongerichten at Waldorf Astoria Beverly Hills This will be the first West Coast restaurant for the New York chef, opening in about a year in this hotel being built next to the Beverly Hilton. Mr. Vongerichten said he did not intend to “reinvent” California cuisine. “But it will be very farm-to-table,” he said. “I want to incorporate trends that are happening there. It will be the first major restaurant to open in that area in quite a while.” Mr. Vongerichten said all the ingredients would be organic. Like the hotel, the restaurant, as yet unnamed, is being designed with a contemporary look by Pierre-Yves Rochon, who did interiors for the Savoy in London and the Four Seasons George V in Paris. It will have about 150 seats indoors and out, Santa Monica and Wilshire Boulevards, Beverly Hills, Calif.


For more restaurant news: nytimes.com/food.
A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2016, on page D3 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















