



MAJOR POINTS IN TESTIMONY BEFORE SENATE PANEL IN HAIG CONFIRMATION - NYTimes.com






























































.NYT5Style .masthead-tools #bar1-button  {
    display: inline;
    vertical-align: top;
}
#bar1-button {
    border:none;
    position: relative;
}
.bar1_hover {
    opacity: 0;
}
.sub_small_hide {
    display: none;
}
#bar1-button > a {
    -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
    background-color: #6288A5;
    border: 1px solid #4D7B9F;
    border-radius: 3px;
    color: #fff !important;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 1em;
    font-weight: bold;
    font-family: nyt-franklin,nyt-franklin-1,'Helvetica Neue',Arial,sans-serif;
    padding: 7px 10px 6px;
    text-transform: uppercase;
    text-decoration: none;
}
#bar1-button > a:hover {
    background-color: #326891;
    border: 1px solid #265E8B;
    text-decoration: none;
}

/* EXCLUDING NYT4 INTERACTIVES */
#interactiveABC #bar1-button {
   display: none;
}


Subscribe Now


Subscribe

campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global


NYTD.loadEditionToggle();

window.setTimeout(function() {
  var login = document.getElementById('memberToolsLogin');
  if (login) {
    login.href += "?URI=" + window.location.href;
  }
}, 0)







Search All NYTimes.com










U.S.





World
 
U.S.
PoliticsEducationTexas 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








MAJOR POINTS IN TESTIMONY BEFORE SENATE PANEL IN HAIG CONFIRMATION
Published: January 14, 1981








    
            Correction Appended        
    
                                            
                    HEARINGS Following are excerpts from a transcript of the hearing in Washington yesterday by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the confirmation of Alexander M. Haig Jr. as Secretary of State, as recorded by The New York Times:        

                    SENATOR PAUL S. SARBANES, Democrat of Maryland: How important is it that Government decisions be made through regularly established channels?        

                    A. I think very important. And I think we cannot permit ourselves to be frustrated by the realities of the current environment in Washington of the kind Mr. Biden, Senator Biden, talked about: the leakage problem. Sometimes that takes a great deal of persistence and requires a number of failures and disappointments.        

                    Q. Well, in view of that answer, what would your thinking be on the way the Cambodian bombing and the Chile Track Two operation were handled? A. Well, with respect to the Cambodian bombing, I think it was very much in line with past practices in American history.        

                    Q. Did those practices trouble you at the time?  A. Not so long as I was assured - and I was - that the appropriate leaders of the Congress were informed. I think in the context of past practices, normally - no one's perfect. No administration is impeccable in these areas, and I don't suppose the Nixon Administration was. But I think there's not a great deal of reason to question that aspect of the problem.        

                    Now you can question whether or not the program itself should've been launched. In that context, you know, I'm on the side of being very much in favor of it. I know what those sanctuaries provided the enemy, and I thought it was a self-defeating position for us to take, to permit them to enjoy those sanctuaries on that narrow strip of land adjacent to South Vietnam.        

                    Q. Now what about the Chilean Track Two, the way that was handled?  A. Well again, and you know everybody's perception is conditioned by their level of involvement, and I know a great deal more about Track Two after the event, and, as I prepared for a required testimony in 1975, than I think I knew at the time. And I think, in hindsight, that that's something that is not ever going to happen again.        

                    In other words, if there were established mechanisms, a 40 Committee designed to deal with covert activity, and there was a separate track established. But, you know, there were tracks in other administrations.        

                    So, again, I want to be sure that we don't single out one particular phase in our history that suggests that it was unique and, as a consequence, something very different. There were tracks in Kennedy's Administration, on the Cuban problem, outside of the old 303 Committee. That's clear and history has confirmed that. Operation in Chile        

                    Q. Now, it's my understanding that the Secretary of State at the time was not aware of the Chilean Track Two operation. Is that your understanding? A. Yeah, I think that's probably true, yes.        

                    Q. What do you think of a decision-making process that excludes from it the Secretary of State, with respect to a decision of that - an action of that sort?  A. It better not happen on my watch.        

                    Q. Did you make a value judgment about it then?  A. I wasn't really sensitive to whether I should or didn't - or shouldn't have because I was not a functionary, in the formal sense of Track Two. My recollections of the situation were I was asked to take some reports from the Central Intelligence Agency. And I served as a conduit for a number of reports that were received, which I learned later were under the format of Track Two.        

                    I didn't sit in on the 40 Committee meetings, I doubt - you know, frankly, it wasn't an issue that I focused on, Senator. Now it's very important that that be understood here.        

                    Q. In terms of your own value judgment, do you think that the wiretaps should have been put on for, first, your fellow staff members at the National Security Council?        

                    A. I think my first answer to that question is to refer you to my statement in the annex dealing with the subject of wiretaps. And I'd like to read it to you, Senator:        

                    ''This committee has considered the issues raised by this program twice: once in 1973 and once in 1974. The first time this committee voted 16-1 to confirm Dr. Kissinger as Secretary of State, noting Dr. Kissinger's role in the wiretapping of 17 Government officials and newsmen did not constitute grounds to bar his confirmation as Secretary of State.''        

                    Later, this committee held special hearings solely to review the events surrounding those wiretaps. Based on this investigation, this committee voted again that the wiretaps provided no basis to question the propriety of Dr. Kissinger's serving as Secretary of State and said, I quote:        

                    ''The committee reaffirms its position of the last year that his, Dr. Kissinger's, role in the wiretapping did not constitute grounds to bar his confirmation as Secretary of State. If the committee knew then what it knows now, it would have nevertheless, nonetheless reported the nomination favorably to the Senate.''        

                    Now, I think you know, Senator, that I have testified extensively before this committee on all the subjects and all of the issues related to it. I think you know that in a recent civil suit the judge concluded that my role was an inactive one and that I had a lack of oversight authority, and therefore I was eliminated from the - from the list. Judgment on Wiretapping        

                    Q. General, let's proceed on the premise that you weren't there and had absolutely nothing to do with it. What is your value judgment about that practice?        







1

2


3


4


Next Page >


Correction: January 15, 1981, Thursday, Late City Final Edition      In a transcript of the hearings on the confirmation of Alexander M. Haig Jr. that appeared in The Times yesterday, the home state of Senator Christopher J. Dodd was given incorrectly. He is a Connecticut Democrat.  	
	
	

 














 



















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback







var dcsvid = "";
var regstatus = "non-registered";





campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Inv1
