
  




Microsoft to Notify Users of Government Hackings - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|Microsoft to Notify Users of Government Hackings



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/22Bf6fG




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
Microsoft to Notify Users of Government Hackings

By NICK WINGFIELDDEC. 31, 2015



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








SEATTLE —  Microsoft says it will begin notifying users of its online services if they have been targets of suspected state-sponsored online attacks, joining a growing list of Internet companies stepping up their security policies with similar measures.The company, which announced the change on Wednesday in a blog post, joins Google, Facebook and others in disclosing when users of email and other services have probably been targeted by hackers working on behalf of governments. Such attacks have increased in intensity in recent years and often involve more sophisticated, sustained forms of trickery to gain control of online accounts than those employed by ordinary digital criminals.Reuters reported on Wednesday that Microsoft managers determined in 2012 that hackers affiliated with the Chinese government had hacked into more than a thousand Hotmail accounts, some of which belonged to leaders of China’s Tibetan and Uighur minorities.Microsoft did not notify the targets of the hacking that the attacks came from state-sponsored sources, a decision that Reuters, citing unnamed former Microsoft employees, said was motivated by a desire to avoid inflaming Chinese government authorities.In a statement responding to the Reuters reporting, Microsoft said it was not sure the attacks had come from state-sponsored hackers in China. It said that at the time, it notified its customers of suspicious activity on their accounts and forced them to reset passwords, without specifying where the attacks might have come from.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“We weighed several factors in responding to this incident, including the fact that neither Microsoft nor the U.S. government were able to identify the source of the attacks, which did not come from any single country,” Microsoft said in the statement. “We also considered the potential impact on any subsequent investigation and ongoing measures we were taking to prevent potential future attacks.”Few Internet companies at the time had publicly committed to letting their users know when they suspected government hackers of targeting them. One exception was Google, which in June 2012 began posting banners atop Gmail accounts warning users when states or state-sponsored groups seemed to be trying to gain control of their accounts.In a blog post describing their warnings, Google declined to say exactly how it knew the attacks were state-sponsored, but said its alerts were the result of detailed analysis and victim reports. Google advised users to take additional precautions, like using stronger passwords and turning on two-step verification, which provides users with secondary codes via text messages or phone calls for accessing their accounts.In October, Facebook said that it had begun notifying its users of state-sponsored efforts to take over customers’ accounts.Around that time, Iranian hackers had compromised the social media and email accounts of State Department officials who focused on Iran and the Middle East, The New York Times reported in November.In December, Twitter also began issuing similar alerts to its users, followed by Yahoo.

 Correction: December 31, 2015  
        An earlier version of this article misstated the timing of a Reuters report on Microsoft’s handling of a 2012 hacking incident. It was published Wednesday, not Thursday.    



A version of this article appears in print on January 1, 2016, on page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: Microsoft to Notify Users of Government Hackings.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















