



A NATION CHALLENGED -  SECURITY -  U.N. Official Calls for a Much Larger International Force in Afghanistan - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










World





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








A NATION CHALLENGED: SECURITY
A NATION CHALLENGED: SECURITY; U.N. Official Calls for a Much Larger International Force in Afghanistan


By ELIZABETH OLSON


Published: March 28, 2002









GENEVA, March 27— 
                    A United Nations investigator urged a significant expansion of the international security force in Afghanistan, warning that failing to do this could torpedo efforts to create democratic institutions in the war-devastated country.        

                    ''The first priority in restoring human rights is security,'' said Kamel Hossain, the United Nations's special representative on human rights in Afghanistan. ''How do you start the rule of law after the rule of the gun for so many years?''        

                    Mr. Hossain, a lawyer from Bangladesh, recommended increasing the international force by between 10,000 and 20,000 troops. He made his remarks after presenting his report on Afghanistan to the annual meeting here of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.        

                    His recommendation runs counter to the view of the United States and France, which have expressed opposition to expanding the 4,800-member International Security Assistance Force. The force is led by Britain and made up of soldiers from European countries and New Zealand, who help guarantee security in and around Kabul, the Afghan capital.        

                    In January, Afghanistan's interim leader, Hamid Karzai, asked the United Nations to extend the force beyond Kabul to other parts of the country where rival warlords are vying for territory and control.        

                    ''This is an absolutely urgent need,'' said Mr. Hossain, who also wants the troops to be deployed across Afghanistan. ''Security lapses could jeopardize the whole transition process. Never has so much been at stake if a modest request for 10,000 to 20,000 international security forces is not urgently and immediately made available.''        

                    Mr. Hossain, who has held his post for three years, has made a number of trips to Afghanistan, most recently in February. He said that many Afghans had been killed during the autumn, noting that ''whenever territory changes hands, there tend to be reprisal killings.''        

                    He said he supported creating a national Afghan army -- a key United States priority -- and especially a national police force, but cautioned that ''you can't wish it into existence overnight.''        

                    In his report, he told the 53-nation human rights commission that Afghans considered a national police force the ''No. 1 priority.'' The absence of nationwide law enforcement, he said, means ''violent crimes are taking place, some of which are reported to be ethnically motivated, resulting in cross-border refugee flows, and a number of them are reported to be directed against women.''        

                    He also urged Afghanistan to confront past wrongdoing during the country's 23 years of war. The Afghan people, he said, need to ''take a critical policy decision'' on whether to prosecute perpetrators of atrocities, or to set up a truth commission, modeled after South Africa's, or some combination to create conditions for national reconciliation.        

                    Wrongdoers can also be excluded from public office, he said, adding, ''If you have a structure based on the will of the people, these warlords will become irrelevant.''        

                    Mr. Hossain also said he was concerned about the conditions under which captured Afghan fighters were being detained inside the country, and urged that they be treated in keeping with Geneva Convention requirements. ''Prisoners must be treated humanely,'' he said, advocating urgent attention to harsh conditions and the outbreaks of disease in Shirbarghan prison, situated near Mazar-i-Sharif in the northern Afghanistan.        

                    He also said the prisoners' status much be determined by ''a competent tribunal,'' as required by the 1949 rules for treatment for prisoners of war.        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Inv1
