
  




NATO Set to Ratify Pledge on Joint Defense in Case of Major Cyberattack - The New York Times



































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Europe|NATO Set to Ratify Pledge on Joint Defense in Case of Major Cyberattack



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1pydC4n




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Europe 
NATO Set to Ratify Pledge on Joint Defense in Case of Major Cyberattack

By DAVID E. SANGERAUG. 31, 2014



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








BRUSSELS — When President Obama meets with other NATO leaders later this week, they are expected to ratify what seems, at first glance, a far-reaching change in the organization’s mission of collective defense: For the first time, a cyberattack on any of the 28 NATO nations could be declared an attack on all of them, much like a ground invasion or an airborne bombing.The most obvious target of the new policy is Russia, which was believed behind computer attacks that disrupted financial and telecommunications systems in Estonia in 2007 and Georgia in 2008, and is believed to have used them in the early days of the Ukraine crisis as well.But in interviews, NATO officials concede that so far their cyberskills are limited at best.While NATO has built a gleaming new computer security center, and now routinely runs computer exercises, it possesses no cyberweapons of its own — and, apparently, no strategy for how it might use the weapons of member states to strike back in a computer conflict. In fact, its most powerful members, led by the United States and Britain, have spent billions of dollars on secret computer offensive programs — but they have declined so far to tell NATO leaders what kind of weapons they might contribute in a NATO-led computer conflict.“Our mandate is pure cyberdefense,” Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the departing NATO secretary general, said during a visit to Washington over the summer. “Our declaration is a start,” he said, “but I cannot tell you it is a complete strategy.”NATO’s tentative steps into the realm of computer conflict, at a moment when Russian, Chinese and Iranian “patriotic hackers” have run increasingly sophisticated campaigns, show the alliance’s troubles in innovating to keep up with modern warfare, at a moment when it is also facing one of its greatest political challenges since the end of the Cold War.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The change in NATO’s definition of an “armed attack” will leave deliberately unclear what would constitute a cyberattack so large that the alliance might declare that the action against one of its members could lead to response by the entire alliance under Article V of its charter. “The judgment will lay with the impact,” said Douglas E. Lute, the American ambassador to NATO, when he spoke in late July at the Aspen Security Forum. “Does it look like it will rise to the level of an armed attack?”Deterrence is all about ambiguity, and the implicit threat that NATO would enter a computer conflict in defense of one of its members is full of those ambiguities. “They fail to get to the heart of the quintessential question about NATO’s cybersecurity obligations,” Julianne Smith, a former Pentagon official, now at the Center for a New American Security, wrote earlier this year for Chatham House, the British foreign policy center. “What constitutes an ‘attack’ and what capabilities might be provided to a member experiencing an attack?”
Photo






Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the NATO secretary general, said the pact was a start, “but I cannot tell you it is a complete strategy.

Credit
            Yves Herman/Reuters        


Here at NATO headquarters, where top officials who were focusing on computer issues for the summit meeting are now preoccupied by Russia’s next moves, the mere declaration itself is considered significant progress. It was only after the Estonia attacks that the alliance paid real attention to the threat. Today Estonia, which President Obama will visit starting Tuesday night, has become the crown jewel in NATO’s computer defense efforts, the place where cyberstrategy is developed and the site of annual NATO computer security exercises, called “Locked Shields.”In interviews, officials said that the declaration that would be ratified this week — it was already embraced by NATO defense ministers in June — marks a long-delayed recognition that a NATO nation could be crippled without a shot being fired. In 2010 the NATO council rejected the proposal that a computer attack on a nation’s electric grid or its financial systems might prove so damaging it should be considered the equivalent of a conventional, armed attack. (NATO has only invoked Article V — the declaration that it would come to the aid of a member state — one time, after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States, and the Bush administration largely waved away the offer of help.)“They just weren’t ready to think about cyberattacks in 2010,” recalled Ivo H. Daalder, the American ambassador to NATO during Mr. Obama’s first term and now president of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. “It’s a measure of how far we’ve come on this issue that there’s now a consensus that a cyberattack could be as devastating as any other kind of attack, maybe even more so.”But Mr. Daalder noted that NATO’s own ability to defend against computer attacks is “still pretty basic,” and it has no ability to execute a “forward defense” that involves going into an adversary’s computer systems and shutting down an attack.“They could leave that to member states,” he said, but would handle it under a NATO chain of command. Yet the NATO members themselves, he noted, may have little understanding of what the United States, Britain or other larger computer powers were able to do.In fact, NATO officials say they have never been briefed on the abilities of the National Security Agency and United States Cyber Command, or those of the Government Communications Headquarters,  its British equivalent. Both countries have routinely placed sensors into computers, switching centers and undersea cables for years, as the documents released by Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, make clear.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The idea is to see an attack massing, and, if the president so ordered, to be able to take out a foreign computer server, or network, to halt an attack. But NATO officials ended up reading press accounts and the Snowden documents in search of an understanding of how the United States conducted computer operations against Iran, or how it monitors hacking units of China’s People’s Liberation Army.“If conventional war or nuclear war were to break out,” one senior NATO official said in an interview here, “there are detailed plans about how we would respond, and what capabilities are at the disposal of the NATO military structure. We don’t have that in the cyberrealm,” he said, in large part because the United States, Britain and Germany do not want many of the other NATO members to understand what kind of abilities they have.

 Correction: September 5, 2014  
        An article on Monday about NATO’s lack of preparedness for cyberattacks misidentified the organization for which Julianne Smith, a former Pentagon official who was quoted in the article, works. She is at the Center for a New American Security, not the New America Foundation.    



A version of this article appears in print on September 1, 2014, on page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: In New Pledge, NATO Nations Would Band Together Against Cyberattacks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage





TIMES TOPIC 

Cyberwarfare












MILITARY ANALYSIS 

Russia Displays a New Military Prowess in Ukraine’s East
APRIL 21, 2014
























Related Coverage






TIMES TOPIC 

Cyberwarfare








MILITARY ANALYSIS 

Russia Displays a New Military Prowess in Ukraine’s East
APRIL 21, 2014













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















