
  




Netanyahu Calls Off Obama Visit, and Fingers Point - The New York Times































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|Netanyahu Calls Off Obama Visit, and Fingers Point



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/21XIQSB




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
Netanyahu Calls Off Obama Visit, and Fingers Point

By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVISMARCH 7, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON —  When it comes to the strained relationship between President Obama and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, even a single missed meeting is cause for grievance and accusations.So it was on Monday, when Mr. Netanyahu abruptly canceled a trip to Washington that was to have included a visit with Mr. Obama. The decision was quickly interpreted as the latest evidence of a lingering rift between two leaders whose public break last year over the Iran nuclear deal brought the American relationship with Israel to a bitter low.Mr. Netanyahu had long planned to travel to Washington next week to attend the annual policy conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, an influential pro-Israeli group known as Aipac.The Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported on Monday that he would not attend the conference because he had not been offered a meeting with Mr. Obama. The White House later dispatched a spokesman for the National Security Council to insist that it was Mr. Netanyahu who had turned down a chance to meet with the president. The spokesman also noted pointedly that Israeli officials had not personally informed Mr. Obama’s team of the prime minister’s change of plans.“We were looking forward to hosting the bilateral meeting, and we were surprised to first learn via media reports that the prime minister, rather than accept our invitation, opted to cancel his visit,” the spokesman, Ned Price, said on Monday.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Mr. Price said that the Israeli government had requested a meeting on March 17 or 18, and that White House officials had offered one on the 18th.Israeli officials said that no snub was intended. In a statement, the prime minister’s office said that Ron Dermer, the Israeli ambassador, had told Mr. Obama’s team on Friday that while Mr. Netanyahu appreciated the offer for a meeting, there was “a good chance that the prime minister would not be coming to Washington.”The officials said that Mr. Netanyahu had merely wanted to stay away to avoid any perceived interference in the American election.The rationale echoed the one given by Mr. Obama a year ago when he declined to invite Mr. Netanyahu to the White House while the prime minister was in Washington to address Aipac and speak to Congress to denounce the Iran agreement. That visit came a few weeks before Mr. Netanyahu faced re-election.Mr. Netanyahu, who now plans to address the conference via satellite, was also concerned about meeting with the president before the two nations have ironed out differences over the size of a new 10-year American military aid package, officials said.The latest tension unfolded just as Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was to travel to Israel and the Palestinian territories for meetings with Mr. Netanyahu and Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian Authority president. The prime minister’s office said Mr. Netanyahu looked forward to the visit.

Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Jerusalem.
A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 2016, on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Netanyahu Calls Off Visit, and Fingers Point.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















