



NEWS WATCH -  SECURITY -  From Symantec, a Hybrid Of Firewall and Spam Buster - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/technology, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/technology, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Business Day
Technology





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








NEWS WATCH: SECURITY
NEWS WATCH: SECURITY; From Symantec, a Hybrid Of Firewall and Spam Buster


By Howard Millman


Published: September 12, 2002









                    It's not true. Despite that promise in the e-mail subject line, the vice president for marketing does not love you. So you won't be fooled again, Symantec has upgraded its Norton Internet Security software suite to intercept more viruses, mass mailers and worms. It also promises to eliminate bandwidth-hogging pop-up ads and reduce spam. If that sounds like a Herculean task, it is. Symantec has cataloged 61,000 threats to your data and program files, and it says there are 10 to 15 new ones appearing daily.        

                    Norton Internet Security 2003 adds features that monitor traffic on many instant messaging networks and help make your computer less visible to hackers and more resistant to viruses and to Trojan horses, those malicious programs disguised as friendly or useful software. Should a virus penetrate your system's defenses, the product employs heuristics, or sets of logical rules, to prevent fast-spreading worms like Nimda and script-based threats like the I Love You virus from infecting other computers to which you link through a network or by e-mail. For example, Internet Security will notify Microsoft Outlook users if a program tries to send batched e-mail messages.        

                    Its spam-filtering feature works with e-mail applications that work with the POP3 protocol like Outlook, Eudora and Netscape Mail. It excludes MIME-based e-mail applications like those of America Online and MSN. Other filters allow parents to place some restrictions on what children can view on the Internet.        

                    Symantec has redesigned Internet Security's user interface, making it easier to install the program and set preferences for cookies and animated ads.        

                    Internet Security 2003, which includes Norton AntiVirus 2003, Norton Personal Firewall and Norton Privacy Control, is $69.95 and is expected to become available by the end of the month. Upgrading from an earlier version costs $39.95. Versions are available for Windows 98 through XP operating systems only.   Howard Millman        

                    Photo        








 






















 






Subscribe to Technology RSS Feeds





Technology News

Internet
Start-Ups
Business Computing
Companies








Bits Blog
Personal Tech
Pogue’s Posts


















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/technology, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/technology, position: Inv1
