
  




N.H.L. This Week: Opportunities to Move Up in Division Races - The New York Times
















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Hockey|N.H.L. This Week: Opportunities to Move Up in Division Races



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1R4rWdb




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Hockey 
N.H.L. This Week: Opportunities to Move Up in Division Races

By NAILA-JEAN MEYERSMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






Justin Williams, celebrating his game-winning goal against the Islanders last month, left Los Angeles as a free agent last summer but will return to the city on Wednesday as a key member of the Capitals.

Credit
            Brad Penner/USA Today Sports, via Reuters        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Every Tuesday, The New York Times will look at the week ahead in the N.H.L., highlighting hot — or not so hot — teams and players. (All times Eastern.)







Games to WatchBruins at Lightning, Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.Boston is not going to be left out of the Atlantic Division race. After defeating Florida in overtime on Monday night on a goal by the deadline acquisition Lee Stempniak, the Bruins head to Tampa with a shot at first place. With 81 points, Boston and Florida are only one point behind first-place Tampa Bay, whose winning streak ended at nine games after a loss to Philadelphia on Monday.Penguins vs. Metropolitan DivisionThe schedule is lined up for Pittsburgh to make a move in the standings. Tuesday’s game against the Islanders in Brooklyn (7:30 p.m., NBCSN) is the second of nine in a row against Metro opponents for the Penguins. That stretch includes a nationally televised game against the Rangers on Sunday afternoon (12:30 p.m., NBC).Capitals at Kings, Wednesday, 10:30 p.m.A pair of reunions will take place at Staples Center on Wednesday, one more awkward than the other. Washington’s visit to Los Angeles takes Justin Williams and Mike Richards back to the arena where they helped the Kings win two Stanley Cups. Williams, a frequent Game 7 hero in Los Angeles, left as a free agent last summer and has become a key cog for the Capitals, who have the best record in the N.H.L. But Richards was banished to the minors by the Kings, then had his contract terminated after he was arrested and charged with possession of a controlled substance in June. In 23 games since signing with Washington in January, Richards has one goal and one assist.Central Division ShowdownsThe Blackhawks (87 points), the Stars (87) and the Blues (85) are bunched tightly in the Central Division standings and play one another this week, starting with Chicago’s visit to St. Louis on Wednesday. It is a particularly important week for Dallas. The Stars have won two in a row, but only three of their last 10, giving up 3.8 goals per game in that span. Dallas is a middling 9-6-2 since the All-Star break and has recently been without John Klingberg, Patrick Sharp, Patrick Eaves and Jordie Benn because of injuries and illness. The Stars face Chicago and St. Louis in back-to-back games Friday and Saturday.In Case You Missed ItOn Monday, the N.H.L. announced that the Winnipeg Jets would host the fourth Heritage Classic outdoor game, against the Edmonton Oilers on Oct. 23.The announcement provided an opportunity to look back at the rivalry between the teams. The Jets and the Oilers came to the N.H.L. together in 1979, but were already rivals from the World Hockey Association. The W.H.A. lasted only from 1972 to 1979, with Winnipeg winning three championships and reaching the final five times. The last game of the W.H.A. was a 7-3 Jets victory over the Oilers, who featured Wayne Gretzky.The alumni game before the Heritage Classic is expected to include Gretzky, Mark Messier, Jari Kurri and Paul Coffey for the Oilers and Dale Hawerchuk and Teemu Selanne for the Jets.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Get to KnowMartin Jones, San Jose Sharks
Photo






Sharks goalie Martin Jones, who has started 15 of the team’s last 17 games, stopped a shot by the Canucks’ Sven Baertschi on Feb. 28.

Credit
            Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press, via Associated Press        


Lost in the surge of the Anaheim Ducks to the top of the Pacific Division has been the San Jose Sharks’ rise in the standings.The Sharks are 18-5-4 since Jan. 9, when they were in fifth place in the Pacific and tied for the second fewest points in the Western Conference. They entered Tuesday’s games in third in the Pacific, 4 points behind the Kings and 5 behind the Ducks.Goaltender Martin Jones, 26, was a question mark going into this season, his first as an N.H.L. starter. But he has held up to the scrutiny.Jones, a Vancouver native, has been connected to hockey for quite some time. His father, Harvey, is the vice president for arena operations with the Canucks and oversaw the construction of Rogers Arena.Martin Jones made his N.H.L. debut in 2013 as the Kings were dealing with an injury to Jonathan Quick. Jones won his first eight starts, with three shutouts, helping the Kings withstand Quick’s missing 33 regular-season games. Los Angeles eventually won the Stanley Cup.Jones remained behind Quick last season, but was traded to the Bruins last summer in the deal that sent Milan Lucic to the Kings. Four days later, Jones was back in the Pacific Division, after being sent to San Jose.He has compiled a 33-17-4 record with a .919 save percentage and a 2.29 goals-against average. Coach Peter DeBoer has leaned heavily on Jones of late. He has started 15 of the team’s last 17 games, though the Sharks acquired James Reimer from Toronto at the trade deadline to be the backup.Jones had a 33-save shutout against the Blackhawks last month, but that performance was topped Monday by a 47-save victory against Calgary.“He was unbelievable; huge save after huge save and he was there for the routine ones,” defenseman Brent Burns said. “He’s been playing amazing. He’s so poised. That’s huge for confidence.”





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















