
  




North Korea’s Kim Jong-un Tells Military to Have Nuclear Warheads on Standby - The New York Times



















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|North Korea’s Kim Jong-un Tells Military to Have Nuclear Warheads on Standby



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/21Lx0ec




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Asia Pacific 
North Korea’s Kim Jong-un Tells Military to Have Nuclear Warheads on Standby

By CHOE SANG-HUNMARCH 3, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story











Photo






The North Korean leader Kim Jong-un watching a rocket launching drill in 2014.

Credit
            KCNA        


SEOUL, South Korea — The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, has urged his military to have its nuclear warheads deployed and ready to be fired at any moment, the country’s state-run news agency reported Friday.Mr. Kim’s comments were reported a day after the United Nations Security Council approved tougher sanctions aimed at curtailing his country’s ability to secure funds and technology for its nuclear weapons and ballistic-missile programs.The North’s official Korean Central News Agency called the resolution unanimously adopted by the Council “unprecedented and gangster-like,” and it quoted Mr. Kim as repeating his exhortation to his military to further advance its nuclear and missile capabilities.“The only way for defending the sovereignty of our nation and its right to existence under the present extreme situation is to bolster up nuclear force, both in quality and quantity, and keep balance of forces,” Mr. Kim was quoted as saying.He then stressed “the need to get the nuclear warheads deployed for national defense always on standby so as to be fired any moment,” the agency said.
Video

Inside North Korea’s Nuclear Ambitions


A citizens reacts after North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, announced that the country should have nuclear warheads ready for defense.

                    By REUTERS and ASSOCIATED PRESS on                                                                Publish Date March 4, 2016.
                                    

                                            Photo by Kcna/Reuters.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed










Later Friday, the North issued a statement calling the Security Council resolution a “heinous provocation” and promising unspecified “strong and ruthless physical responses.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

In Seoul, President Park Geun-hye of South Korea warned that Pyongyang could attempt more provocations and said the South’s military should be prepared. “This time, we must make North Korea realize that its regime cannot survive without giving up its nuclear weapons,” she said in a speech at a commissioning ceremony for military officers.North Korea has often threatened nuclear war with the United States and has claimed to have built nuclear weapons small enough to be carried by missiles. Yet questions remain about its capabilities, including how close it has come to mastering technologies to build a small warhead and deliver it on a long-range missile.In Seoul on Friday, representatives of the South Korean and American armed forces on a joint task force met to discuss the possible deployment of an advanced missile defense system called Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense, or Thaad.South Korea agreed to consider the deployment after the North’s launch of a long-range rocket on Feb. 7. President Park’s government says that Thaad would bolster its defense against North Korean missiles, but China has strongly opposed the deployment, saying that its presence on the Korean Peninsula would undermine its own nuclear deterrent capabilities.In the past, North Korea has escalated its bellicose threats whenever the United States and South Korea start their annual joint military exercises, which it says are aimed at overthrowing its government.







Today’s Headlines: Asia Edition
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning.




 



Some of the annual drills are scheduled to begin this month. On Friday, the North Korean news agency charged that the exercises included drills for a “beheading operation” and the “collapse of social system” in the North.“Now is the time for us to convert our mode of military counteraction toward the enemies into an pre-emptive attack one in every aspect,” it quoted Mr. Kim as saying in response.K.C.N.A. said that Mr. Kim had made his remarks while inspecting tests of new weapons, including fragmentation-mine shells and underground penetration shells for the North’s newly developed large-caliber multiple-rocket launcher that it said had entered serial production.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

It did not clarify when the tests had taken place. But the South Korean Defense Ministry said that North Korea had launched six projectiles off its east coast on Thursday, hours after the Security Council resolution was adopted unanimously.The projectiles flew about 60 to 90 miles before landing in the sea, the ministry added. South Korean defense officials said that the North had been testing a new multiple-rocket launcher with a range long enough to strike major American and South Korean military bases, including those in the Osan-Pyeongtaek hub 62 miles south of Seoul.Apart from its nuclear weapons, North Korea’s multiple-rocket launchers and artillery pieces are its most-feared weapons in the South.

The North is estimated to have 13,000 of them clustered on the inter-Korean border, 28 miles north of Seoul; the North’s occasional threats over the years to turn the South Korean capital into a “sea of fire” are presumed to be references to these weapons.

A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 2016, on page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: North Korean Leader Instructs Military to Have Nuclear Warheads on Standby.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










U.N. Toughens Sanctions on North Korea in Response to Its Nuclear Program
MARCH 2, 2016












Q. AND A. 

How North Korea Poses a Threat
MARCH 1, 2016













Doubts in Asia Over Whether New Sanctions Against North Korea Can Work
FEB. 26, 2016













U.S. and China Agree on Proposal for Tougher North Korea Sanctions
FEB. 25, 2016













South Korea Tells China Not to Intervene in Missile-Defense System Talks
FEB. 24, 2016




































Related Coverage







U.N. Toughens Sanctions on North Korea in Response to Its Nuclear Program
MARCH 2, 2016












Q. AND A. 

How North Korea Poses a Threat
MARCH 1, 2016













Doubts in Asia Over Whether New Sanctions Against North Korea Can Work
FEB. 26, 2016















U.S. and China Agree on Proposal for Tougher North Korea Sanctions
FEB. 25, 2016













South Korea Tells China Not to Intervene in Missile-Defense System Talks
FEB. 24, 2016













Why Experts Doubt That North Korea Tested a Hydrogen Bomb
JAN. 6, 2016





graphic








Show All





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















