
  




U.S. and China Agree on Proposal for Tougher North Korea Sanctions - The New York Times

















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|U.S. and China Agree on Proposal for Tougher North Korea Sanctions



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KNN37i




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement









Supported by



Asia Pacific 
U.S. and China Agree on Proposal for Tougher North Korea Sanctions

By SOMINI SENGUPTAFEB. 25, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story











Photo






Secretary of State John Kerry and Foreign Minister Wang Yi of China at the State Department in Washington on Tuesday.

Credit
            Saul Loeb/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        


UNITED NATIONS —  The United States and China reached an agreement to impose tougher sanctions against North Korea, in what appeared to be a diplomatic shift by Beijing regarding its intransigent ally.The proposed resolution is the product of intense negotiations between the two nations over the last seven weeks, since Pyongyang tested a nuclear weapon it claimed was a hydrogen bomb. It was circulated to members of the United Nations Security Council on Thursday, and diplomats said it could come up for a vote in the coming days.Diplomats said the fact that Washington and Beijing had agreed on a set of measures increased the international pressure on the North Koreans. In the past, after previous nuclear tests condemned by the Security Council, China agreed only to banning weapons transfers and limited sanctions against those linked to the nuclear program.Whether the proposed new sanctions will succeed in curtailing Pyongyang’s nuclear ambitions remains to be seen. Past efforts to halt its nuclear program have not been fully carried out, nor have they prevented North Korea from pursuing a nuclear arsenal. Whether China would follow through on tougher sanctions was also a key question. 








                    OPEN Graphic                



            Graphic: Why Experts Doubt That North Korea Tested a Hydrogen Bomb        


United States officials declined, without explanation, to provide the text of the resolution.The proposed measures, according to a United States official, would ban the trade of conventional weapons, luxury goods like jet skis and Rolex watches, and aviation fuel to North Korea, which could effectively ground its national airline. It would also place prohibitions on dozens of new companies and individuals accused of trafficking in illicit nuclear material.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

In what may be the toughest proposed measure, all North Korean cargo entering or leaving a country must be inspected by that country.The mandatory cargo inspection applies to “anything going to and from the D.P.R.K.,” according to an American official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the talks. “If it is on your territory, in your ports or in your airports, there’s a requirement to inspect cargo to and from the D.P.R.K.,” the official said, using the initials for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.In addition, 31 ships that have been known to traffic in illegal nuclear goods are to be banned from docking in any port. It is impossible to verify whether countries sending or receiving North Korean goods will carry out the inspections. However, they will be legally binding if the resolution is adopted.







Today’s Headlines: Asia Edition
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning.




 



Significant loopholes remain. North Korea would still be able to buy oil and sell its coal and iron ore, as long as it is not being used to fund its nuclear weapons program — which would be difficult to prove. China, North Korea’s main trading partner and diplomatic backer, is its main supplier of oil.The draft resolution would also prohibit North Korea from exporting gold, titanium and rare earth minerals. It would ban countries from sending any item to North Korea that could be used by the North Korean armed forces, like trucks that could be rejiggered for military purposes.Samantha Power, the United States ambassador, called the draft document “a major upgrade” to existing sanctions against North Korea, which are aimed mainly at those linked to the nuclear program. “These sanctions if adopted would send an unambiguous and unyielding message to the D.P.R.K. regime — the world will not accept your proliferation,” she said Thursday.The Chinese envoy to the United Nations, Liu Jieyi, declined to comment on the specifics of the draft on Thursday but said he hoped the council would reach a consensus. “The resolution should pave the way for a negotiated solution down the road, not be a stonewall,” he said.
Video

China Endorses North Korea Sanctions


Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China’s foreign ministry, said on Thursday that her government was confident that new United Nations sanctions on North Korea could curb its nuclear arms program.

                    By REUTERS on                                                                Publish Date February 26, 2016.
                                    

                                            Photo by European Pressphoto Agency.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed










The new sanctions come as the United States is in talks with officials in Seoul about the possible deployment of an American missile-defense system in South Korea, a development Beijing strongly objects to. It also follows stepped-up United States sanctions against North Korea.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Kelsey Davenport, a North Korea expert at the Washington-based Arms Control Association, pointed out that even tough sanctions would not alone curtail Pyongyang’s nuclear ambitions without what she called “sustained diplomacy.”“China’s agreement to support additional U.N. sanctions sends a strong message to North Korea that it cannot count on Beijing to shield it from the costs of flouting international law,” she said. “However, China’s support for additional sanctions may not translate into the political will necessary in Beijing to enforce restrictions on the books. Without stringent enforcement, North Korea’s complex illicit trafficking networks will continue undeterred.”Reuters quoted the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, as saying, “We hope and believe this new resolution can help effectively constrain North Korea from further developing its nuclear missile program.” The draft contains language that notes the “grave hardships” that North Korean citizens are subjected to, but says nothing about human rights abuses that have been painstakingly documented by a United Nations Commission of Inquiry.

John Sifton, the deputy Asia director for Human Rights Watch, described Pyongyang’s nuclear program as “inextricably linked” to its record of repression, including forced labor and torture. “Sanctioning North Korea’s nuclear proliferation should go hand in hand with condemning the devastating human rights abuses that persist on a massive scale across the country,” he said.

A version of this article appears in print on February 26, 2016, on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: China and U.S. Agree on North Korea Sanctions Resolution .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage









NEWS ANALYSIS 

North Korea’s Rocket Launch Frays Ties Between South Korea and China
FEB. 10, 2016













To Build a Ski Resort Under U.N. Sanctions, North Korea Turned to China
FEB. 5, 2016













After Nuclear Test, South Korea Urges China to Rein In North
JAN. 13, 2016













U.S. Prods China on North Korea, Saying Soft Approach Has Failed
JAN. 7, 2016













North Korea’s Hydrogen Bomb Claim Strains Ties With China
JAN. 6, 2016




































Related Coverage






NEWS ANALYSIS 

North Korea’s Rocket Launch Frays Ties Between South Korea and China
FEB. 10, 2016













To Build a Ski Resort Under U.N. Sanctions, North Korea Turned to China
FEB. 5, 2016













After Nuclear Test, South Korea Urges China to Rein In North
JAN. 13, 2016















U.S. Prods China on North Korea, Saying Soft Approach Has Failed
JAN. 7, 2016













North Korea’s Hydrogen Bomb Claim Strains Ties With China
JAN. 6, 2016












Show All





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















