
  




Rocket Suggests North Korea Made Small Gains in Technology, South Says - The New York Times












































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|Rocket Suggests North Korea Made Small Gains in Technology, South Says



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KCgV66




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Asia Pacific 
Rocket Suggests North Korea Made Small Gains in Technology, South Says

By CHOE SANG-HUNFEB. 9, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






A North Korean man in the town of Sinuiju as seen from across the Yalu River in the border city of Dandong, China.

Credit
            Johannes Eisele/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        


SEOUL, South Korea —  The rocket launched by North Korea on Sunday had a longer range and carried a heavier payload than the one used to put a satellite in orbit in 2012, indicating that Pyongyang had made modest advances in its rocket technology, the South Korean Defense Ministry said on Tuesday.The launch on Sunday was condemned by South Korea, the United States and other countries, which consider such efforts by the North to be a cover for developing intercontinental ballistic missile technology.The rocket, the Kwangmyongsong, or shining star, put a satellite into orbit nine minutes and 29 seconds after its takeoff from the Tongchang-ri launch site in the country’s northwest, according to Defense Ministry officials, who briefed journalists on the condition of anonymity.







Today’s Headlines: Asia Edition
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning.




 



It resembled the Unha-3 rocket that North Korea used to launch a satellite in 2012, but the officials said the satellite on Sunday was heavier. The ministry’s analysis indicated that the new rocket, if successfully reconfigured as a missile, could fly more than 7,400 miles with a warhead of 1,100 to 1,300 pounds, compared with 6,200 miles for the Unha-3 launched in 2012 — in both cases, far enough to reach the West Coast of the United States.But North Korea has never flight-tested a long-range ballistic missile, which requires technology that enables a warhead to survive re-entry into the atmosphere. It is also unclear how close North Korea has come to miniaturizing a nuclear bomb so it could be mounted on a missile.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The North’s 2012 launch was its first successful attempt to put a satellite into orbit, but South Korean officials later said that the satellite appeared to be tumbling out of control and that the North was unable to communicate with it. The Defense Ministry officials said on Tuesday that it was too soon to tell whether the satellite launched on Sunday was functioning normally.After the 2012 launch, South Korea said it had salvaged the wreckage of the rocket’s first stage and found that many of its components were off-the-shelf items made by other countries. The first stage of the rocket launched on Sunday disintegrated over the ocean west of South Korea, in a deliberate effort to ensure that it could not be recovered and analyzed, the Defense Ministry officials said.Also on Tuesday, President Park Geun-hye spoke by telephone with President Obama and later with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, reaffirming their intent to push for “strong and effective” new sanctions against North Korea at the United Nations Security Council, Ms. Park’s office said. They also agreed to pursue additional sanctions independent of the United Nations, Ms. Park’s office said.

A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 2016, on page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: Advances Seen in Rocket Fired by North Korea.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










North Korea Nuclear Threat Cited by James Clapper, Intelligence Chief
FEB. 9, 2016












NEWS ANALYSIS 

China Struggles for Balance in Response to North Korea’s Boldness
FEB. 7, 2016













North Korea Launches Rocket Seen as Cover for a Missile Test
FEB. 6, 2016













To Build a Ski Resort Under U.N. Sanctions, North Korea Turned to China
FEB. 5, 2016













North Korea Faked Test Video, Group Says
JAN. 12, 2016
























Related Coverage







North Korea Nuclear Threat Cited by James Clapper, Intelligence Chief
FEB. 9, 2016












NEWS ANALYSIS 

China Struggles for Balance in Response to North Korea’s Boldness
FEB. 7, 2016













North Korea Launches Rocket Seen as Cover for a Missile Test
FEB. 6, 2016















To Build a Ski Resort Under U.N. Sanctions, North Korea Turned to China
FEB. 5, 2016













North Korea Faked Test Video, Group Says
JAN. 12, 2016












Show All





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















