
  




South Korea Accuses North of Hacking Senior Officials’ Phones - The New York Times














































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|South Korea Accuses North of Hacking Senior Officials’ Phones



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QHVcqN




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Asia Pacific 
South Korea Accuses North of Hacking Senior Officials’ Phones

By CHOE SANG-HUNMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






A photo released by North Korea’s official Korean Central News Agency, purportedly showing railway workers in West Pyongyang protesting last week against United Nations Security Council sanctions.

Credit
            Korean Central News Agency, via Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea’s main spy agency on Tuesday accused North Korea of hacking the smartphones of dozens of senior government officials here, saying that Pyongyang had stolen their text messages, contact information and voice conversations.







The agency, the National Intelligence Service, has said that South Korea faces a growing threat of major online attacks from the North, possibly in retaliation for the latest international sanctions over Pyongyang’s nuclear arms and missile programs. Seoul imposed new sanctions of its own against North Korea on Tuesday.The intelligence agency said in a news release that it had shared information about recent North Korean hacking attempts in a meeting on Tuesday with other government agencies, which was called to discuss the country’s readiness for a major online attack. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Philippines Will Impound Ship Linked to North KoreaMARCH 6, 2016











North Korea Threatens Nuclear Attack as U.S. and South Korea Begin DrillsMARCH 6, 2016











U.N. Toughens Sanctions on North Korea in Response to Its Nuclear ProgramMARCH 2, 2016











Q. and A.: How North Korea Poses a ThreatMARCH 1, 2016







Between late February and early March, the agency said, North Korea tried to infiltrate the smartphones of senior South Korean officials by sending them text messages designed to activate a virus. About 20 percent of those phones were infected with the virus, according to the agency, which did not identify the officials who had been targeted.The agency also said that North Korea had successfully hacked into the network of a company that provided security software for an online banking system used by more than 20 million South Koreans. But it said that the attack, which took place in February, was detected early and that there was no major disruption to banking services.The intelligence service did not explain how it had concluded that North Korea was responsible.The United Nations Security Council adopted new sanctions last week to punish North Korea for conducting its fourth nuclear test on Jan. 6 and launching a long-range rocket on Feb. 7. South Korea has been a leading advocate for the tougher penalties, which are aimed at the North’s ability to raise funds for its weapons programs and target luxury goods, which analysts believe are used to ensure the loyalty of the North’s ruling elite.Also on Tuesday, South Korea announced new sanctions against the North, banning all ships visiting North Korea from making port calls in the South for six months. Japan announced a similar measure last month.“Together with the Japanese sanctions, our step today will make foreign vessels increasingly reluctant to visit North Korea,” the government said in a news release. “This in turn will cause significant problems for North Korea’s ability to transport banned goods.”Last year, 66 third-country ships made a total of 104 port calls in South Korea after visiting the North, carrying steel and other goods, the government said. South Korea also said 40 individuals and 30 entities, most of them North Korean, would be prohibited from financial transactions with the South because of ties to the North’s weapons programs. It also urged its people not to eat at any of the 130 restaurants abroad that North Korea runs to earn foreign currency.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Officials in the South said shipping sanctions would have some “concrete” impact because fewer ships would be willing to visit the North. But the overall efforts to squeeze North Korea depend on cooperation from China, its largest trading partner.Seoul had already banned most direct trade with North Korea after the sinking of a navy ship in 2010, which it attributed to  a North Korean torpedo attack. At the time, it also banned new investment in the North and blocked all North Korean ships from entering its waters.Last month, South Korea also shut down the last joint economic project with the North, a factory park in the North Korean town of Kaesong.South Korean and American officials have been increasingly concerned about North Korea’s ability to carry out cyberattacks. South Korea has blamed Pyongyang-sponsored hackers for major disruptions of banking, government, news media and military websites in the South in recent years.The National Intelligence Service had earlier accused North Korean hackers of spreading game apps containing malicious viruses in 2013 and 2014, affecting an estimated 25,000 South Korean smartphone users and stealing their contact data and text messages.North Korea also emerged as a prime suspect in the 2014 attack that shut down the computer systems of Sony Pictures Entertainment, which had produced a comic film, “The Interview,” that involved a plot to assassinate the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.North Korea has denied involvement in those attacks and accused South Korea of disrupting its own websites.North Korea is cut off from the Internet except for a handful of state-approved websites. But South Korean intelligence officials say the country has been training specialists in computer attacks for decades. The Pentagon has also said that the impoverished North might see hacking attacks as “a cost-effective way to develop asymmetric, deniable military options.”


Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day with the Today’s Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















