
  




Now a Solid Bet: Donald Trump’s Nomination Chances Are Better Than 50 Percent - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





The Upshot|Now a Solid Bet: Donald Trump’s Nomination Chances Are Better Than 50 Percent



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Q72K5s




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement







Edited by David Leonhardt
Follow Us:




Visit The Upshot on Facebook





Visit The Upshot on Twitter





Follow The Upshot via RSS



Get the Upshot in your Inbox

The Upshot




Supported by



                                                                                        The 2016 Race                                    
Now a Solid Bet: Donald Trump’s Nomination Chances Are Better Than 50 Percent





Justin Wolfers


@JustinWolfers

FEB. 1, 2016



Inside










Photo






Donald Trump spoke at a campaign event at the Dubuque Regional Airport in Iowa on Saturday.

Credit
            Damon Winter/The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Donald Trump is now more likely than not to win the Republican nomination.On the day of the Iowa caucuses, the political prediction markets, where traders bet on the outcome of the election, give him a 51 percent chance of becoming the G.O.P. nominee.Although the Republican field still nominally contains an unusually large slate of candidates, prediction market traders see a four-horse race. Mr. Trump is the clear favorite. The second favorite is Marco Rubio, at 33 percent.Ted Cruz, who appears to be Mr. Trump’s most serious rival to win in Iowa, is not expected to do as well in less conservative states, and so he is given only an 8 percent chance. The early front-runner in the race, Jeb Bush, is now given only a 6 percent chance.Beyond this leading pack, while Chris Christie and John Kasich have each picked up important newspaper endorsements, the markets rank them essentially as 100-to-1 long shots. The markets see no real possibility that the other candidates will win, and each is rated as more improbable to win the nomination than Mitt Romney, who is not even running.The odds that I’m citing here come from the prediction market tracker at the PredictWise website. Prediction markets have a long track record of providing accurate election forecasts, and historically have proven to be more accurate than statistical models or polls. In this race, the markets have been slow to take Mr. Trump’s candidacy seriously, and he became the market front-runner only in the past couple of weeks, even as he has led national polls since mid-2015.

Mr. Trump is now rated to have a 59 percent chance to win Monday evening’s Iowa caucuses, a 69 percent chance to win the New Hampshire primary and a 70 percent chance to win the South Carolina primary. He’s also given a 69 percent chance to win in Nevada.If you think that means that he’s destined to coast through the early voting states, realize that these percentages will move sharply as each state votes. If Mr. Trump’s supporters fail to show up in large numbers at the Iowa caucuses, expect his chances in each of these subsequent states to fall sharply.
Continue reading the main story











Political News, Now.







 









Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









A Stream of Invective: Introducing the Upshot’s Encyclopedia of Donald Trump’s Twitter Insults 










Donald Trump’s Twitter Insults: The Complete List (So Far) 










The 2016 Race: The Four Big Questions About Donald Trump’s Chances 






It is also worth emphasizing that while 50 percent is often a magic number in politics — earn one vote more than 50 percent and you’re guaranteed to win an election — that’s not true for prediction markets. Polls describe an expected vote share; prediction markets describe the chance that a candidate will garner the most votes. And as much as I’ve noted that Mr. Trump has slightly better than a 50 percent chance to win the nomination, they’re also saying that there’s nearly a 50 percent chance that he won’t.The race remains wide open.


Justin Wolfers is a professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan. Follow him on Twitter at @justinwolfers
The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.
















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















