
  




Officials Offer Reassurances on Security at Super Bowl - The New York Times


















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Pro Football|Officials Offer Reassurances on Security at Super Bowl



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1X4wKEC




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Pro Football 
Officials Offer Reassurances on Security at Super Bowl

By KEN BELSONFEB. 3, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Heavily armed specialists with the San Francisco Police Department were all over Super Bowl City on Wednesday.

Credit
            Chang W. Lee/The New York Times        


SAN FRANCISCO —  With anxiety heightened three months after terrorists struck a stadium amid a bloody series of attacks in and around Paris, local and federal law enforcement officials said Wednesday that there was no credible threat to Super Bowl 50 and that several measures, many of them not visible to the public, would protect it.The secretary of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, flanked by nearly a dozen other law enforcement officials, said security for the game, set for Sunday, and for events surrounding it here this week involved an array of local and federal law enforcement agencies. He said many measures would not be seen by the public, but he did not elaborate.“We look forward to a safe and secure and successful Super Bowl,” said Mr. Johnson, who inspected Levi’s Stadium, the site of the game, earlier Wednesday. He said he would not be at the game.Security is always a concern at the Super Bowl, one of the country’s highest-profile events. Last year’s game, with 168 million viewers, was the most-watched show in American history.







Sports Newsletter
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.








But security this year has received greater focus by the league and security officials after the attacks in Paris in November, when terrorists struck several venues, including Stade de France in the northern suburb St.-Denis during a match between the French and German soccer teams.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The attackers did not get past the gates of the stadium that night, but their attempt was a reminder that stadiums can be targets.Mr. Johnson said he had been in contact with his counterpart in France at the Ministry of the Interior. Jeffrey Miller, the head of security for the N.F.L., traveled to France over the summer, before the attacks, as part of a session to share knowledge among international security experts.“We’re always collectively talking and paying attention to trade craft and things occurring overseas because if we see something happen there, there is a good possibility someone may try to do something like that on U.S. soil,” Mr. Miller said.The Super Bowl has a Tier 1 special event assessment rating, which allows federal agencies to spend money to help secure the event. That rating is one level below a national special security event, the highest. The first Super Bowl after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, held in New Orleans, had that designation.Mr. Miller said a no-fly zone would extend from San Jose, Calif., to near San Francisco International Airport, starting an hour before the game and continuing until midnight. Many fans flying to the game on private jets will arrive in Oakland, Calif., as a result. The temporary flight restriction does not apply to commercial flights controlled by air traffic control.

A version of this article appears in print on February 4, 2016, on page B13 of the New York edition with the headline: Officials Offer Reassurances on Security.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story














Super Bowl
Complete coverage of the N.F.L.'s Super Bowl 50 from New York Times reporters and editors.








                                Peyton Manning Expected to Say He’s Leaving the N.F.L.            
MAR 6








                                Who’s Favored to Win the Super Bowl Next Year? Them Again            
FEB 10








                                Cam Newton Defends Postgame Behavior at Super Bowl            
FEB 9








                                A Look Back at the Super Bowl, and Three Reforms That Are Needed Now            
FEB 9








                                The Super Bowl Ad That Set Off Economic Alarm Bells            
FEB 9






See More »








Related Coverage










Wins of Their Fathers Weigh on Two Super Bowl Coordinators
FEB. 3, 2016












ON PRO FOOTBALL 

In Silicon Valley, a Time-Honored Sport Looks to the Future
FEB. 3, 2016













At Blinn College, Cam Newton Plotted a Return to the Big Time
FEB. 2, 2016













Out of a Rare Super Bowl I Recording, a Clash With the N.F.L. Unspools
FEB. 2, 2016
























Related Coverage







Wins of Their Fathers Weigh on Two Super Bowl Coordinators
FEB. 3, 2016












ON PRO FOOTBALL 

In Silicon Valley, a Time-Honored Sport Looks to the Future
FEB. 3, 2016













At Blinn College, Cam Newton Plotted a Return to the Big Time
FEB. 2, 2016













Out of a Rare Super Bowl I Recording, a Clash With the N.F.L. Unspools
FEB. 2, 2016













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















