



ON TWO FRONTS -  SECURITY -  U.S. Closes 38 Embassies In Africa as a Precaution - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










World





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








ON TWO FRONTS: SECURITY
ON TWO FRONTS: SECURITY; U.S. Closes 38 Embassies In Africa as a Precaution


By ROBERT PEAR


Published: December 18, 1998









WASHINGTON, Dec. 17— 
                    The United States has closed 38 embassies in Africa for at least two days to protect employees against possible terrorist reprisals for the American air strikes on Iraq, Administration officials said today.        

                    Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said the Administration was taking this highly unusual step of closing so many embassies today and Friday ''because we are concerned about general threats and the heightened situation.''        

                    State Department officials said that two of the largest and busiest American embassies, in South Africa and Nigeria, remained open.        

                    The embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, which were hit by terrorist bombs in August, were among those closed today. Administration officials said the 38 embassies were closed, in part, to avoid a repetition of such attacks, which killed more than 250 people and injured more than 1,000.        

                    Other embassies closed today include those in Angola, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, Mozambique, Namibia, Senegal, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.        

                    Several State Department officials expressed doubts about whether it was necessary to close so many embassies. But a spokeswoman for the department said: ''This action was carefully considered. A number of African posts have received threats in recent weeks, and our caution is fully justified in the current circumstances.''        

                    State Department officials said that, as a precaution, they had instructed dependents of American diplomats to leave the American embassies in Israel and Kuwait and the consulate in Jerusalem.        

                    The officials said they were concerned that the dependents could not be adequately protected if Iraq used chemical or biological weapons in retaliation for the American air strikes.        

                    At the American embassy in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, a spokeswoman said, ''We haven't received any specific threat, but it is better to be on guard and take precautions instead of having regrets later.''        

                    Federal officials said today that they had also ordered extra security at Government buildings here and at airports around the United States. Additional police officers and guards were on duty at the Capitol, and the General Services Administration, the landlord for the Government, said security had been increased to a ''maximum state of alert'' at Federal buildings.        

                    The State Department also issued a worldwide warning to Americans abroad to take precautions. In its worldwide advisory, the department said it had no specific information about threats to U.S. citizens, but that ''the potential for retaliatory acts against U.S. citizens exists.''        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Inv1
