
  




Police Shooting of Oregon Occupier Declared Justified, but F.B.I. Faces Inquiry - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|Police Shooting of Oregon Occupier Declared Justified, but F.B.I. Faces Inquiry



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1UbPz93




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
Police Shooting of Oregon Occupier Declared Justified, but F.B.I. Faces Inquiry

By JULIE TURKEWITZ and ERIC LICHTBLAUMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






LaVoy Finicum at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in January.

Credit
            Julie Turkewitz/The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



DENVER — Investigators said Tuesday that Oregon state officers acted properly when they shot and killed LaVoy Finicum, one of the activists occupying a wildlife refuge in Oregon, but federal officials have opened an inquiry into the actions of F.B.I. agents for not disclosing that they also fired shots during the confrontation.







The investigators based their conclusions in part on a dramatic, previously undisclosed videotape taken from one of the occupants of Mr. Finicum’s car, which showed him taunting officers and daring them repeatedly to “shoot me.”Finicum was killed Jan. 26 after the authorities tried to apprehend him at a police blockade outside the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge.“Of particular concern to all of us,” said Sheriff Shane Nelson of Deschutes County, was that the F.B.I. agents “did not disclose their shots to investigators.” 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









25 Plead Not Guilty in Standoff at the Oregon Wildlife RefugeFEB. 24, 2016











LaVoy Finicum: ‘I Would Rather Die Than Be Caged’JAN. 27, 2016









video



Footage of Chase of LaVoy FinicumJAN. 28, 2016







Sheriff Nelson said neither of the shots by the F.B.I. struck Mr. Finicum. Investigators said Mr. Finicum was instead shot and killed by three rounds fired by Oregon state officers, all of which struck him in the back. The Malheur County district attorney, Dan Norris, said that all six shots fired by Oregon officers, including the three that hit Mr. Finicum, were justified.
Continue reading the main story
Video

Oregon Police on Shooting of Protester


The fatal shooting of LaVoy Finicum, one of the armed protesters who took over a federal wildlife refuge in Oregon in January, was “justified and necessary” according to officials.

                    By REUTERS on                                                                Publish Date March 8, 2016.
                                    

                                            Photo by Reuters.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed










While the findings are a relief to the local troopers, the F.B.I. agents on the scene face serious questions. F.B.I. agents from the hostage and rescue team were interviewed by investigators immediately after the shooting and again about 10 days later, but on both occasions they denied having fired any shots. Investigators said they ultimately concluded that two of the shots — one hitting the truck — must have come from one of the F.B.I. agents, whose identity is still unknown to investigators.Once investigators learned last month of the failure of the agents to disclose their full role, investigators in Washington were immediately summoned to Oregon to begin investigating possible impropriety, officials said. The federal inquiry will be done by the Justice Department inspector general’s office along with the United States attorney’s office in Oregon.Greg Bretzing, the special agent in charge of the Oregon office, declined to say Tuesday whether any of the F.B.I. agents involved in the episode had been placed on leave.The video released Tuesday was taken by Ms. Cox, and covers the moments before Mr. Finicum’s death.In the recording, Mr. Finicum sits in the driver’s seat of a truck, wearing a cowboy hat. While stopped, he heckles authorities. “You do as you damn well please, we’re not going anywhere,” he yelled. “You can go ahead and shoot me, put the bullet through the head.”Pop music plays in the background. Then Mr. Finicum is seen driving away from troopers, and the passengers attempt to crouch down and make phone calls. The camera shakes, and three shots are heard. The vehicle then stops after veering off the road and hitting a snowbank. Mr. Finicum gets out and the video captures his words: “Go ahead and shoot me. You’re going to have to shoot me.”
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
In January, Mr. Finicum, 54, was one of the first people to occupy the refuge, an 188,000-acre bird sanctuary just outside Burns, Ore., that is run by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.Mr. Finicum and other leaders of the occupation, including two brothers, Ammon and Ryan Bundy, initially said they were protesting the prison sentences of two local ranchers who had been convicted of lighting fires that spread to federal land.
Photo






Ammon Bundy and Shawna Cox during the occupation at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in January.

Credit
            Jim Urquhart/Reuters        


Others joined the activists at the refuge and the group began to call on the government to relinquish control of all federal lands. Many occupiers affiliated themselves with the so-called patriot movement, a loosely organized group that includes various militias and others who oppose the idea of a strong federal government.On Jan. 26, Mr. Finicum, the Bundy brothers, and several other occupation leaders left the refuge in two vehicles, headed to a meeting in a nearby city, John Day, where they hoped to rally supporters. But the state police and the F.B.I. had set up a blockade. As officers tried to arrest them, Mr. Finicum was killed. A video released by the bureau showed Mr. Finicum stopping his vehicle, then speeding away only to end up in a ditch near a roadblock. He then got out of his vehicle, waving his arms and reaching toward his pocket. The police later said that Mr. Finicum was carrying a loaded 9 mm handgun.More than two dozen occupiers were eventually arrested and face federal conspiracy charges.Two witnesses to the Jan. 26 episode, Shawna Cox, 59, and Victoria Sharp, 18, have said that they believe the killing of Mr. Finicum was unjust, and that he was holding his hands in the air in surrender. Ms. Sharp has said she heard shots hit the truck where she was holed up.“I was a witness, I saw what happened,” said Ms. Cox in a telephone interview shortly before the investigators’ announcement. “They murdered him.”The occupation ended on Feb. 11, when the last four protesters left the bird sanctuary and turned themselves in to the F.B.I. But occupiers and their sympathizers have gathered since, holding rallies in Portland, Salt Lake City, Bend, Ore., and elsewhere, protesting Mr. Finicum’s death, the arrest of other occupiers, and the arrest of Cliven Bundy, a prominent leader of the anti-government movement.


Julie Turkewitz reported from Denver and Eric Lichtblau from Washington.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















