
  




Pakistani Politician’s Son, Abducted 5 Years Ago, Is Found Alive - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|Pakistani Politician’s Son, Abducted 5 Years Ago, Is Found Alive



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Asia Pacific 
Pakistani Politician’s Son, Abducted 5 Years Ago, Is Found Alive

By SALMAN MASOODMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






Shahbaz Ali Taseer in 2011. The police and intelligence officers found him Tuesday in a compound in Baluchistan Province in southwestern Pakistan.

Credit
            Ahmed Riaz/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Pakistani officials said Tuesday that the police and its security forces found Shahbaz Ali Taseer, the son of a prominent former governor, alive in southwestern Pakistan five years after militants kidnapped him in a mystery that had riveted Pakistan for years.







Mr. Taseer, now in his early 30s, was kidnapped by Islamist militants on Aug. 26, 2011, in Lahore. Eight months before the kidnapping, his father, Salmaan Taseer, the governor of Punjab Province, was assassinated by one of his security guards, who had been outraged over Mr. Taseer’s campaign to alter the country’s harsh blasphemy laws.The two incidents made the Taseers a public symbol of a Pakistani liberal establishment family that had been threatened by extremism. Speculation about Shahbaz Taseer’s health has continued over the years, with some assuming that he had been killed by his captors.Mr. Taseer was found Tuesday evening in Kuchlak, a town near Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan Province, according to Anwarul Haq Kakar, a spokesman of the provincial ministry. The province has long been a battleground between the Pakistani security forces and ethnic Baluch separatists. It is also known as a stronghold for jihadist and sectarian extremist groups, including the Afghan Taliban.“He has been safely recovered,” Mr. Kakar said. “He is with the law enforcement agencies.”The spokesman offered few details except that a joint operation by the police and intelligence agencies after 4 p.m. led to the discovery of Mr. Taseer. “Today is a very big day for law enforcement agencies.”The rescue comes a week after the confessed killer of the elder Mr. Taseer, Mumtaz Qadri, was executed by the Pakistani authorities. Mr. Qadri was widely considered a hero of Islam for killing Mr. Taseer, who was 65 at the time, as hundreds of thousands of mourners demonstrated after his execution.A senior official with the police told reporters for Agence France-Presse that the raid on Tuesday took place after a tip and that the police and intelligence agencies had found Mr. Taseer in an empty compound. “We surrounded the compound and we raided it. We didn’t find anyone. A single person was there and he told us, ‘My name is Shahbaz, and my father’s name is Salmaan Taseer,’” a senior police official, Aitzaz Goraya, was quoted as saying.Suleman Ghani, the father-in-law of Mr. Taseer, said the family had been informed by the authorities about the operation but gave no further details.It was not clear which militant group was holding Mr. Taseer. Officials said that he was kidnapped by the banned sectarian extremist group Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, but that he had been passed on to several different militant cells during his captivity. At least part of that time, he was believed to have been held in the North Waziristan tribal area, a nexus of militant activity that was the focus of a Pakistani military offensive in 2014.The mysterious circumstances around the case led to speculation that a ransom might have been paid, but there was no confirmation of that or other central details of the Mr. Taseer’s freedom.Asif Ali Zardari, the former Pakistani president, hailed the release of Mr. Taseer. “It was not yet clear as to who and how his release became possible. However, all those who made efforts in securing his release deserve to be commended,” Mr. Zardari said in a news release.Mr. Zardari also expressed the hope that the son of former Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani, who was kidnapped during the 2013 elections, would also be released.“It is hard to imagine the torture of uncertainty inflicted on a person and his family who is abducted by unknown abductors and kept for five years at an unknown location beyond any glimmer of hope and far beyond the reach of law,” Mr. Zardari said. “Shahbaz Taseer and his entire family deserve to be commended for enduring this ordeal and nerve-racking experience.”


Waqar Gillani contributed reporting.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















