



Personal Files Via Computer Offer Money and Pose Threat - NYTimes.com































































.NYT5Style .masthead-tools #bar1-button  {
    display: inline;
    vertical-align: top;
}
#bar1-button {
    border:none;
    position: relative;
}
.bar1_hover {
    opacity: 0;
}
.sub_small_hide {
    display: none;
}
#bar1-button > a {
    -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
    background-color: #6288A5;
    border: 1px solid #4D7B9F;
    border-radius: 3px;
    color: #fff !important;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 1em;
    font-weight: bold;
    font-family: nyt-franklin,nyt-franklin-1,'Helvetica Neue',Arial,sans-serif;
    padding: 7px 10px 6px;
    text-transform: uppercase;
    text-decoration: none;
}
#bar1-button > a:hover {
    background-color: #326891;
    border: 1px solid #265E8B;
    text-decoration: none;
}

/* EXCLUDING NYT4 INTERACTIVES */
#interactiveABC #bar1-button {
   display: none;
}


Subscribe Now


Subscribe

campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global


NYTD.loadEditionToggle();

window.setTimeout(function() {
  var login = document.getElementById('memberToolsLogin');
  if (login) {
    login.href += "?URI=" + window.location.href;
  }
}, 0)







Search All NYTimes.com










U.S.





World
 
U.S.
PoliticsEducationTexas 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








LIVES ON FILE: The Erosion of Privacy -- A special report.
Personal Files Via Computer Offer Money and Pose Threat


By NINA BERNSTEIN


Published: June 12, 1997









                    It was past midnight when Beverly Dennis came home, weary from her second-shift factory job, and found a letter with a Texas postmark among the bills and circulars in the day's mail. As she read it in her small house in Massillon, Ohio, alone in the dark stare of the sliding glass doors, her curiosity turned to fear.        

                    The letter was from a stranger who seemed to know all about her, from her birthday to the names of her favorite magazines, from the fact that she was divorced to the kind of soap she used in the shower. And he had woven these details of her private life into 12 handwritten pages of intimately threatening sexual fantasy.        

                    ''It can only be in letters at the moment,'' the man wrote after describing the sexual acts he planned. ''Maybe later, I can get over to see you.''        

                    The explanation that eventually emerged deepened Ms. Dennis's sense of violation -- and places her experience at the heart of a far-reaching national debate over legal protection for privacy in a world where personal information is ever easier to mine and market.        

                    The letter writer was a convicted rapist and burglar serving time in a Texas state prison. He had learned Ms. Dennis's name, address and other personal information from one of the product questionnaires that she and millions of other consumers had received in the mail, innocently completed and sent back to post office boxes in Nebraska and New York on the promise of coupons and free samples. Their answers were delivered by the truckload to the Texas prison system, which was under contract to handle the surveys for the Metromail Corporation, a leading seller of direct marketing information. Hundreds of unpaid inmates, many of them sex offenders, entered the information on computer tapes for Metromail, which has a detailed data base on more than 90 percent of American households.        

                    To Ms. Dennis, a woman in her 50's who grew up in the coal country of southern Ohio, it was as though her privacy had been strip mined by the dark side of the information economy.        

                    Indeed, as the free-flowing exchange and exploitation of information is being celebrated as the main engine of economic prosperity into the next century, individual privacy is looking more and more like an endangered natural resource.        

                    Hunger for personal information is now growing explosively in almost every sector of the nation's economy and everyday life: health care, entertainment, banking and supermarket sales. It is being spurred and sharpened by powerful market forces and ever more pervasive computer technology, including digital mapping tools and so-called ''data-mining'' software that blast commercial value from newly linked data bases of unprecedented size.        

                    Yet like the people whose private lives and public records passed through the fingers of Texas felons, most Americans have no idea what is happening to the stream of personal data that they shed just by living in the modern world. And most businesses that make money on the collection, recombination and sale of shards of personal information maintain that people need no legal right to know, and have no good reason to object.        

                    The electronic deposits keep growing with the pulse of daily life: telephone calls, checkout counters, A.T.M.'s, and electronic bridge tolls, the street gaze of security cameras, plastic insurance cards imprinted with the Social Security numbers that have become identity's common currency, and its easy counterfeit.        

                    The Internet, where every keystroke can be archived, is now the most dramatic embodiment of what technology and commerce afford in the real world: the pooling of ever more vast stores of data and the easy retrieval of individual specks with no one's say-so.        

                    This networked world of information is an economic powerhouse that creates new jobs, new services and astonishing efficiencies. It offers a wide range of consumer benefits, including easy credit, shopping convenience and customized goods and services. It also turns commonplace transactions into little revelations.        

                    When a clerk puts a supermarket discount card through the scanner, for example, a data base links the shopper's identity with the bar code on every item bought. A love of rich chocolate cookies not only can be tracked over time, but matched with an individual's address, age, weight and ethnicity, with marital status and credit standing and even with religious ties, to name just a few of the personal facts being bought and sold wholesale in today's booming information market.        

                    A class-action lawsuit that Ms. Dennis filed last year against Metromail and its subcontractors is emblematic of the growing conflict over privacy as people learn how little they control the use of personal information that is an increasingly valuable corporate asset.        

                    ''Privacy will be to the information economy what consumer protection and product safety were to the industrial age,'' Marc Rotenberg, director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center in Washington, warned at Federal Trade Commission hearings on electronic consumer privacy last year. This week, the F.T.C. is holding another round of hearings on the issue.        

                    But as Ms. Dennis has learned during a three-year struggle for redress, any battle for privacy today is an uphill fight, and individuals have an inherent disadvantage.        







1

2


3


4


5


6


7


Next Page >




 














 



















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback







var dcsvid = "";
var regstatus = "non-registered";





campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Inv1
