



Peru Shrugged Off Warnings Of Rebel Attack, Experts Say - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










World





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








SIEGE IN PERU: SECURITY
Peru Shrugged Off Warnings Of Rebel Attack, Experts Say


By CALVIN SIMS


Published: December 20, 1996









LIMA, Peru, Dec. 19— 
                    Terrorism experts said today that Peru dismissed several well-executed attacks in the last year and ignored warnings that foreshadowed the commando-style takeover of the Japanese ambassador's house, where guerrillas are holding several hundred hostages.        

                    The experts said the warnings had come from a range of sources: captured documents indicating plans for raids on official targets and intelligence from academics and law enforcement officials as well as informants in contact with guerrilla groups.        

                    But Government security forces, convinced they had won the war against terrorism after years of success, have been devoting their limited resources to other threats, like drug trafficking and a simmering border war with Ecuador, the experts added.        

                    Enrique Obando, a professor who is considered the foremost authority on terrorism and the military in Peru, said: ''The security forces were sloppy and overconfident. This attack could have been prevented with the same measures that any airline takes when passengers go onto an airplane.''        

                    Mr. Obando and others said Government officials ignored their warnings that terrorists were shifting their tactics from seizing and controlling territory and attacking the armed forces to undertaking ''commando-style'' raids intended to destabilize the Government and capture world attention.        

                    The recent wave of attacks was particularly troubling because the targets were sensitive Government and military sites.        

                    For example during the summer, the rebels bombed a central police station assinged to protect the Peruvian Congress. They also struck the house of a general who is the military chief in a region where the rebels have a stronghold. Guerrilla gunmen also shot and killed a prominent community leader, who had challenged the rebels.        

                    The experts further said the Government was unprepared to deal with the new wave of attacks because it had no special military forces trained to free hostages and it had no team of negotiators with experience in dealing with hostage-takers.        

                    ''On the one hand, this attack was due to great planning by Tupac Amaru, but on the other hand, the forgetfulness of those charged with preventing it is to blame,'' said John Caro, the former head of Peru's anti-terrorism police.        

                    ''The Government's intelligence-gathering has failed because this could have been prevented,'' he added.        

                    Members of the pro-Cuban Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement seized control of the Japanese residence on Tuesday night by posing as waiters and using dynamite to blow a hole in a retaining fence from an adjacent house they had been renting for months.        

                    Although the Japanese Ambassador was holding a reception for more than 600 international dignitaries, security was not increased for the party. Instead, the residence was protected by the same number of police officers normally provided to the Ambassador and his family.        

                    Exactly why security forces did not pay more attention to warnings that terrorists were shifting their tactics is not clear. Telephone calls made to the army and anti-terrorist police for comment in the last two days were not returned.        

                    But several officials in the office of President Alberto K. Fujimori defended the Peruvian leader's record on terrorism, saying that 90 percent of guerrilla leaders had been captured since 1992 and that the number of bombings and killings associated with terrorism had declined dramatically.        

                    In the last 18 months, analysts estimate, about 500 people have died in political violence in Peru, and the Government has detained more than 500,000 suspects.        

                    Although the exact number is not known, experts estimate that more than 20,000 people are involved in Peru's anti-terrorism efforts, including the special anti-terrorism police, the National Police, and factions of the Peruvian military.        

                    Terrorism experts said the budget and personnel for Peru's anti-terrorism activities were cut sharply when Peru went to war with Ecuador last year over a disputed border in the Amazon jungle.        

                    Many soldiers who fought terrorists in Peru's jungles were sent to the Ecuador frontier. At the same time, many intelligence officers who were  vital to the Government's arrest of terrorist leaders, were reassigned to work on the border conflict, drug trafficking and domestic political issues.        

                    Without strong intelligence units focused on the problem, Peru cannot hope to infiltrate the terrorist groups and anticipate their attacks, the experts said.        

                    Perhaps the most striking warning that terrorists had adopted such tactics came last year when police arrested 23 Tupac Amaru members and associates, including a New York woman, Lori Helene Berenson. Authorities said the group had devised an elaborate plan to storm the Peruvian Congress.        

                    The police discovered a formidable cache of weapons in a house belonging to the group, including machine guns, mortars, rocket launchers, hand grenades, cases of ammunition and military and police uniforms.        

                    Also discovered in the house were large diagrams of the Peruvian Congressional building and documents indicating the location of military guards in the Congress and their hours of rotation.        

                    The police said the rebels had planned to storm the Congress by posing as police officers and military guards and then to hold members of Congress hostage in exchange for the release of captured guerrilla leaders.        

                    ''If ever there was a wake-up call this was it,'' said Professor Obando.  ''The similarities between what Tupac Amaru planned to do at the Congress and what they did at the Japanese residence are striking.''        

                    The Tupac Amaru rebels who are holding the hostages at the Japanese residence have demanded the release of their imprisoned compatriots.        

                    Still, the officials said that President Fujimori, seeking to attract foreign investment and raise his popularity at home, may have been overzealous in painting a picture of Peru as terrorist-free state.        

                    Mr. Fujimori has often boasted that he crushed both the Shining Path and Tupac Amaru guerrillas and that only ''common criminals'' remain active in Peru.        

                    Ricardo Letts, a former opposition Congressman, said that in an attempt to portray Peru to the international community as being safe from terrorism, Mr. Fujimori had not disclosed several recent terrorist attacks.        

                    In one attack, Tupac Amaru rebels seized a large coffee plantation in Chanchamayo jungle and threatened to burn it if the owners did not pay a large ransom, the former Congressman said. The attack was never reported publicly, even though Government officials visited the plant.        

                    Photo: Red Cross workers carried bottled water into the Japanese Ambassador's residence in Lima yesterday. Water and power were cut in the neighborhood and the Red Cross later brought fans for the hostages inside. (Associated Press)(pg. A14)          








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Inv1
