
  




Philippine Court Clears Way for Senator Grace Poe to Run for President - The New York Times









































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|Philippine Court Clears Way for Senator Grace Poe to Run for President



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1SwCS8W




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Asia Pacific 
Philippine Court Clears Way for Senator Grace Poe to Run for President

By FLOYD WHALEYMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






Senator Grace Poe, with arm extended, was surrounded by supporters when she arrived at the Supreme Court of the Philippines in January.

Credit
            Bullit Marquez/Associated Press        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



MANILA — The Supreme Court of the Philippines on Tuesday ruled that a popular senator, seen by some as likely to carry forward the policies of President Benigno S. Aquino III, is eligible to run for the presidency.Senator Grace Poe, the adopted daughter of one of the country’s most famous movie stars, has consistently ranked among the most popular of the candidates. In December, the Commission on Elections disqualified her after complaints claimed that she was a United States citizen and had not lived in the Philippines long enough to run.According to Ms. Poe’s account, she was abandoned on the doorstep of a church on the central Philippine island of Panay in 1968 and was adopted by the movie star Fernando Poe Jr. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









30 Years After Revolution, Some Filipinos Yearn for ‘Golden Age’ of MarcosFEB. 23, 2016











Philippine Supreme Court Approves Return of U.S. TroopsJAN. 12, 2016











Philippines’ President Endorses Mar Roxas as SuccessorJULY 31, 2015











As Pope Francis Visits Philippines, Tensions Between Church and Government SurfaceJAN. 16, 2015











Obama’s Strategic Shift to Asia Is Hobbled by Pressure at Home and Crises AbroadAPRIL 21, 2014







She later moved to the United States, where she obtained citizenship and lived for several years before returning to the Philippines and entering politics. In 2013, she surprised many people in the country by running for the Senate and winning with more than 20 million votes — the highest number among the more than 30 candidates.Ms. Poe has said she formally renounced her United States citizenship and established residency in the Philippines in time to run for president, but her candidacy has been dogged by allegations that she is ineligible. The country’s Constitution says that candidates must have been a resident for 10 years and be a “natural-born” citizen. There are multiple disputed versions of when Ms. Poe established residency and whether as a foundling she is legally a natural-born citizen or a naturalized citizen.In recent public opinion surveys, Ms. Poe has been tied for the lead in the presidential race with Vice President Jejomar Binay. At stake in the election is the continuation of policies introduced by the Aquino administration that have resulted in strong economic growth, praise from international organizations on anticorruption efforts and steady upgrades by investment ratings agencies.Mr. Aquino endorsed former Interior Secretary Mar Roxas as his chosen successor and asked Ms. Poe to run as vice president. She declined the offer and began an independent bid for the presidency that embraces many of the policies of the Aquino administration.Mr. Binay, her closest rival, is an outspoken critic of Mr. Aquino. In the Philippines, the president and vice president are elected separately, and it is not uncommon for the two officeholders to be political opponents. Mr. Binay has signaled that he will change many of the Aquino administration’s policies. He has said that Mr. Aquino has failed to spread economic prosperity to the country’s poor, has been slow to build infrastructure and has been unnecessarily confrontational with China over territorial disputes in the South China Sea.Mr. Binay is under investigation by the country’s anticorruption investigator, the Office of the Ombudsman, over allegations that he benefited from money siphoned from a public building project in Makati, near Manila. He has denied the allegations, which he said were concocted by the Aquino administration to derail his presidential bid.A statement from the Supreme Court did not provide details on the justices’ thinking in Tuesday’s decision but said the vote was 9-6 in favor of Ms. Poe. The presidential election will be held May 9.


Follow Floyd Whaley on Twitter @floydwhaley. 
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day with the Today’s Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















