
  




Plan to Raise Fees for Air Travelers Sets Off Debate - The New York Times


























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Paying for Security



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day |                    Itineraries                
Paying for Security

By SUSAN STELLINSEPT. 26, 2011



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








The Obama administration’s proposal to raise the security fee for air travelers — part of its overall plan to reduce the budget deficit — has reignited a debate over who should pay the bill for aviation security: airlines and their passengers, or all taxpayers.If the higher fees are adopted, travelers may demand more scrutiny of how the government is spending the nearly $2 billion it already collects each year through these fees, and may ask whether the growing budget for screeners and X-ray scanners can be better managed.Passengers currently pay a $2.50 security fee for each segment of a trip, up to a maximum of $10 for a round-trip ticket. In its deficit reduction plan released last week, the administration proposed raising the fee initially to $5 for a one-way trip and then increasing the fee by 50 cents a year from 2013 to 2017, ultimately adding up to a $15 security charge on a round-trip airline ticket.About $15 billion of the additional revenue collected over a decade would go toward deficit reduction. But the administration said another reason for the increase was to raise to 75 percent the portion of aviation security paid for by airlines and their passengers, rather than less than half the budget as has been the case for years.Dana Hyde, associate director for general government programs at the Office of Management and Budget, said that when Congress created the Transportation Security Administration in 2001, the intention was to recover the agency’s costs through the passenger security fee and a separate security tax paid by the airlines. The original fee has not risen since then even as security costs have grown. As a result, taxpayers have been forced to cover the difference.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

With its proposal, the administration aims to shift that balance to a more user-financed system.“This is increasing the cost to the user, but actually decreasing the cost to the taxpayer,” Ms. Hyde said.But the airlines and other travel industry groups announced almost immediately that they planned to fight the proposed fee increase, as they have done successfully every time it has been suggested in recent years.“No other mode of transportation bears the cost of security like the aviation industry and its passengers,” said Steve Lott, spokesman for the Air Transport Association, an airline trade group. “Security should be a federal function, and it should be funded as such.”The airlines also oppose a provision in the administration’s proposal that would impose a new $100 per flight fee on commercial carriers and private planes, which would go to the Federal Aviation Administration for air traffic services.That would increase the amount commercial airlines and general aviation operators already pay for air traffic control, but not address the fact that private planes contribute far less for arguably the same service of guiding an aircraft safely through the airspace.
Photo






Increasing security fees may also create a vocal constituency to rein in costly and questionable technology.

Credit
            Erik S. Lesser/Associated Press        


If Congress passes either proposal, travelers are likely to end up paying the bill.Given the financial struggles the airlines have experienced during the last decade, Mr. Lott said, any tax increase would have to be offset by service cuts or higher fares. He suggested that increased security fees might also result in a demand for more controls on spending.“The amount of money that the industry and its passengers have paid to fund security has soared 50 percent since 2002,” Mr. Lott said. “Congress has a responsibility to scrutinize how the money is being spent.”Robert Poole, director of transportation policy at the Reason Foundation, a research group in Washington, has studied how aviation security is financed in other countries, and said he believed that shifting toward a system where users paid more was fair.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“It’s less bad for the aviation community and passengers to pay for these taxes than the general population,” he said, noting that Canada and, increasingly, countries in Europe follow this model.Although he said he did not support using $15 billion in revenue from the security fee to reduce the deficit, as the administration has proposed, he expected that shifting the cost burden would have an important effect: creating a more vocal constituency to rein in what he described as “wasteful T.S.A. spending.”“If the whole program costs were coming out of the hides of airlines and their passengers, I think we would see a lot more focus on why does this cost so much and where is the bang for the buck,” Mr. Poole said.That oversight has mostly come from the Government Accountability Office, which has issued a string of reports critical of the Transportation Security Administration’s tendency to purchase equipment without first evaluating its effectiveness or conducting a rigorous cost-benefit analysis.Most notably, machines that puffed air on travelers to check for explosives had to be scrapped because they broke down frequently. The G.A.O. has also expressed concerns about the use of baggage scanning machines that did not meet current explosives detection standards and the more than $750 million spent on about 3,000 behavioral detection officers at airports without enough evidence that the program’s results justified its cost.“Usually you validate a concept and then you field it, but they deployed the program and then they started validating it, which we have some concerns about,” said Stephen Lord, director of homeland security issues at the G.A.O.Mr. Lord said that the Transportation Security Agency had generally been responsive to his office’s recommendations, and he and Mr. Lott credited the agency’s recent efforts to move away from a one-size-fits-all approach through the trusted traveler program that is now being developed to offer vetted travelers less scrutiny.Even so, a tough economic climate and tighter budgets may force a closer look at the security agency’s spending, especially if Congress, the airlines and travelers start looking at the price tag of equipment like body scanners, and demanding proof of how well they work.“We think the T.S.A. should be doing a better job of cost-benefit analysis to answer that question, ‘Are we getting what we paid for?’ ” Mr. Lord said. “It’s difficult to do, but we don’t think that should stop you from trying.”

A version of this article appears in print on September 27, 2011, on page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Paying for Security.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















