



Police Pledge Extra Patrols And Assure City of Safety - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










N.Y. / Region





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








BOMBS IN BROOKLYN: THE SECURITY
Police Pledge Extra Patrols And Assure City of Safety


By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN


Published: August 2, 1997









                    As local and Federal authorities worked yesterday to determine the scope of a terrorist bomb plot uncovered in Brooklyn, officials tightened security measures at transportation hubs, city landmarks and Jewish institutions and sought to reassure a jittery public.        

                    Police Commissioner Howard Safir said extra law enforcement officers would patrol specific areas across the metropolitan area.        

                    The police plan will mean stepped-up efforts by officers at sensitive locations, including ''government buildings, houses of worship and transportation facilities,'' said Deputy Inspector Michael Collins, a Police Department spokesman. He declined to specify the number of additional officers that would be involved.        

                    Mayor Giuliani urged calm.  ''There is no reason to change anything. The police will have, in discreet ways, additional security in areas where they think it's necessary.''        

                    Peter Yerkes, a spokesman for the Port Authority, said security workers at the region's three major airports had been advised to be extra vigilant.        

                    In the last year, canine bomb-detection teams were added to the airports' security measures, Mr. Yerkes said, adding that the airports had also improved credential checks in recent months.        

                    Laura Nastro, 60, who lives in of Orange County about 50 miles northwest of New York City, was at Kennedy International Airport yesterday, waiting to board a flight to Milan. ''Terrorism is all over,'' she said. ''It's not in one place. You think Israel is so far away. But with what happened yesterday, I realized these things can happen anyplace.''        

                    There was a noticeable increase in the police presence yesterday at the World Trade Center and the Empire State Building. At Pennsylvania Station in midtown Manhattan, Amtrak officials said the railroad had taken increased precautions. ''We have heightened our manpower substantially,'' said Lieut. Jim McHugh of the Amtrak police.        

                    Curiously, at the Atlantic Avenue subway station in Brooklyn, one target in the suspected bomb plot, there was no apparent increase in police presence or security.        

                    Extra precautions were also taken yesterday at synagogues and other Jewish institutions. Myrna Schinbaum, a spokeswoman for the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, said the organization would maintain its own standard security measures and expected increased police patrols outside its offices and at other Jewish institutions.        

                    The Jewish Community Relations Council, an umbrella organization of Jewish groups, issued a security alert, urging that ''prudent steps be taken in order to protect our members and our buildings.''        

                    James K. Kallstrom, the assistant F.B.I. director in charge of the New York City office, said it was likely that increased precautions would also be taken in other parts of the country. ''I think you will see a general ratcheting up of security or at least a review of security procedures to make sure that they are at an adequate level,'' he said. ''I think that's the prudent thing to do.''        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Inv1
