
  




In Portland, Oregon, a Warm Embrace of Tango - The New York Times












































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Travel|In Portland, Oregon, a Warm Embrace of Tango



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1R3etlI




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Travel 
In Portland, Oregon, a Warm Embrace of Tango



Heads Up 
By                     
JESSICA COLLEY CLARKE

MARCH 8, 2016



Inside










Photo






At an alternative milonga at the Norse Hall, which features D.J.s and live music.

Credit
            Leah Nash for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



On a gray Wednesday afternoon in Southeast Portland, Ore., someone flicked on the lights in Tango Berretín, a dance studio devoted entirely to Argentine tango. Alex Krebs, the owner, teacher and acclaimed dancer, pressed play on traditional music from the 1930s and 1940s, as students drifted in, tossing aside street shoes for strappy stilettos. Against a backdrop of tango sheet music on the walls, the dancers didn’t wait for a formal invitation to the timeworn hardwood floor. One look with sustained eye contact (“cabeceo”) was a mutual agreement to dance. Within moments of arrival, dancers were locked in a cheek-to-cheek embrace, gliding to the music.







Tango took off in Portland in the late 1990s. The city is now a renowned destination for Argentine tango in North America, attracting dancers from around the globe with two annual festivals (Portland Tango Festival in October and ValenTango last month) and a thriving social dance scene. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Heads Up: In Portland, Thai Food Moves Beyond the UsualDEC. 29, 2015











36 Hours: 36 Hours in Portland, Ore.SEPT. 9, 2015







The survival of ballrooms from their heyday in the 1920s has been central to the continued growth of tango in Portland, providing affordable and central venues for weekly milongas (tango social dances). In recent years, tango has expanded beyond the ballroom to anywhere with a suitable dance surface, including a local bakery.
Photo






Alex Krebs, owner of Tango Berretín, and Alyssa Jernigan, an Argentine tango instructor.

Credit
            Leah Nash for The New York Times        







Diversions
A break from the day’s grimmer news.







                                Review: In ‘Scary Old Sex,’ Arlene Heyman Mines the Details            
MAR 8








                                Coming Home to Pot Roast            
MAR 8








                                Seven Ways of Seeing Beauty in Design            
MAR 8








                                Frank Zappa’s House Can Be Yours for $9 Million            
MAR 8








                                On an Italian Island, How He Met My Mother            
MAR 8






See More »



“Baking was just a cover for tango,” Tissa Stein, the owner of Tabor Bread, said with a smile about the conception of her bakery in 2012. Even before it opened, tango was very much a part of the design.

Instead of concrete floors, Ms. Stein chose honey-colored hickory, a smooth surface ideal for tango’s gliding steps. The countertops where bread is made by day are on wheels to open up space for dancing by night. “Tango and baking are both deeply nourishing,” Ms. Stein said. “To me, tango is another type of nutrition for the body.”

After hours, Tabor Bread hosts sultry tango soirées, attracting up to 50 dancers a night. Tables are cleared away and dancers spin around the floor, often to live music, against the backdrop of the bakery’s wood-burning oven. Ms. Stein, 67, who began dancing about nine years ago, is planning a sunset, or happy-hour, milonga for dancers whose schedules don’t allow them to dance into the wee hours (or as a warm-up for those who do).
Continue reading the main story
Video

36 Hours in Portland


Portland, Oregon’s largest little city, is a bastion of creative living, excellent food, happy inebriation and devotion to the great outdoors.

                    By FRITZIE ANDRADE, AVA BENJAMIN, ANDREW HIDA, WILL LLOYD and SARAH BRADY VOLL on                                                                Publish Date September 9, 2015.
                                    


Watch in Times Video »







embed










“The warm embraces of tango compensate for the lack of sunshine in Portland,” said Antje Kalinauskas, one of the hosts of several past milongas there, including Chispa (Spanish for spark) at Tabor Bread. Originally from Germany, Ms. Kalinauskas, 40, found a welcoming tango community in Portland. “Tango can be like speaking another language,” she said. “Think about how fun it can be to meet someone new and chat in their language.”
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
The community has spread beyond the boundaries of the dance studio, too, with organized group bike rides. Jeff Mandel, a shoemaker, runs Tango by Bike,  where free group rides are announced, gathering dancers to bike into the heart of the city to tango. What began as organized social rides in 2007 during tango festivals has grown exponentially to include all sorts of tango gatherings including ballroom milongas. They draw locals and often rope out-of-town visitors into the community before dancing begins.



Tango al fresco especially flourishes in the summer. “ ‘Tango in the Park’ began as a flash mob type thing,” said Jim Labbe, organizer of the community group. “At first we danced on cement, then began looking for suitable surfaces in Portland, and we’d travel there by bike.” One that they found is the hardwood boardwalk at Jamison Fountain in the Pearl District, a central landmark that often draws crowds who watch the dancers. Tango in the Park has grown to include a portable dance floor that can be put on top of most surfaces, from a concrete path along the Willamette River to a patch of grass in the abundant parks.A devotion to tango in Portland is fed by two prime factors: Dancing is affordable and gatherings are easy to reach in this compact, mostly flat city. A milonga is held weekly on Thursdays at Norse Hall, a community center with a ballroom ($10), drawing up to 125 dancers a night. Wednesdays at Norse Hall attract a somewhat younger crowd for an alternative milonga ($8), a modern approach with nontraditional music.The weekday Guided Practica at Tango Berretín ($8) is regularly full on Wednesday afternoons. Since Alex Krebs, 38, began teaching in 1997, his email list has grown to 1,200 students ranging from age 18 to 80. According to Mr. Krebs, “on any weekend in Portland, you could fly in on a Thursday or Friday and dance Argentine tango all weekend long.”


A version of this article appears in print on March 13, 2016, on page TR4 of the New York edition with the headline: Going Where the Tango Takes You.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















