
  




Who’s Winning the Presidential Campaign? - The New York Times

















































































NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content




The New York Times





Election 2016|Who’s Winning the Presidential Campaign?



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Kpda1u




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement









                            Election 2016                        







Who’s Winning the Presidential Campaign?


History suggests that each party’s eventual nominee will emerge in one of the top two or three positions, as measured by endorsements, fund-raising and polling.
UPDATED Sept. 15, 2015















What’s NewFor the first time, Donald Trump has more than a 50 percent chance of winning the nomination, according to prediction markets. Of course, that also means there is a 49 percent chance someone else will win it. Mr. Trump tops Iowa polls as does Hillary Clinton.The polls get most of the attention, but they have not historically been the most important part of the early stages of a presidential campaign. The better guide to who’s really winning is known as the invisible primary, in which candidates compete for support from their fellow politicians, from party leaders and from donors.A candidate who wins the invisible primary usually wins the party nomination. At the least, the eventual nominee tends to be a candidate who was a close runner-up. Why? The support of party leaders is both a sign of a candidate’s long-term strength and a source of future strength. One fascinating dynamic: This support may matter less in 2016 than it has in the recent past, which is why the prediction markets have recently moved away from the candidates with the most elite support.As for the polls, they’re not irrelevant -- and they have become increasingly relevant, now that we're only weeks from the first votes being cast. But the national polls matter less than the polls in Iowa and New Hampshire, the first two states to vote and the states where voters are paying more attention to the candidates.Here, we offer a scoreboard that totes up the factors that matter most, and we’ll update it every day.Prediction MarketsWhen a campaign still has months remaining, prediction markets — in which traders bet on event outcomes — have a substantially better record than polls at pointing to the eventual nominee. But the markets do have at least one weakness: They sometimes exaggerate the chances of long-shot candidates, perhaps because a few passionate traders can affect prices.PredictWise prediction data are based on odds from the Betfair and PredictIt betting exchanges and markets, and aggregate polling data from HuffPost Pollster.National Endorsements“Since 1980, the single best predictor of a party’s nominee is the number of endorsements from party elites — elected officials and prominent past party leaders — in the months before primaries begin,” as the political scientist Lynn Vavreck put it. Why? Political elites have a better sense of which candidates can endure a long campaign, and they can influence voters and donors by praising or criticizing candidates. One distinguishing feature of the 2016 cycle is how few top Republicans have endorsed any candidate so far — Jeb Bush has received endorsements from less than 10 percent of Republican senators, representatives and governors, compared with Hillary Clinton’s 76 percent of Democratic officials.National Republican officials include 31 governors, 54 senators and 246 representatives. National Democratic officials include 19 governors, 44 senators and 188 representatives.Sources: Democracy in Action; data gathered by John Sides, George Washington University, and Lynn Vavreck, U.C.L.A., with help from Luis Rishi Puno.Iowa PollsNational polls have started to become relevant only in recent weeks, as more voters begin to focus on the race. Still, likely caucus goers in Iowa are paying more attention than most voters, which makes the polls there especially noteworthy. Of course, Iowa has voted for the eventual nominee in only two of the last six Republican nomination fights (George W. Bush in 2000 and Bob Dole in 1996) that did not involve an incumbent president. It has done better in Democratic races, choosing four of the past six nominees.Source: HuffPost Pollster, based on the average of the five most recent polls by unique pollsters.New Hampshire PollsNew Hampshire’s Republicans are also starting to pay attention to the race, and they’re more moderate than Iowa’s. New Hampshire has a better recent record of picking the nominee, going four for six starting in 1980 for Republicans and three for six since 1984 for Democrats. Over that span, no candidate has won the nomination without winning at least some delegates in either New Hampshire or Iowa.Source: HuffPost Pollster, based on the average of the five most recent polls by unique pollsters.Money RaisedAs with endorsements, money matters for two reasons: It’s a sign of a candidate’s strength, and it then becomes a further source of strength. Jeb Bush leads the fund-raising competition by a large amount, but he is so weak in the polls that money may not be enough. The calculations here include both the money raised directly by a campaign and the money raised by the super PACs and other outside groups allied with the campaign.Candidate totals are through Sept. 30, and outside group totals are through June 30.Source: Federal Election Commission, campaigns, news reports






 Note: Lincoln Chafee, Lindsey Graham, Bobby Jindal, George Pataki, Rick Perry, Scott Walker and Jim Webb have dropped out of the race and are no longer included (Mr. Webb has said he would consider running as an independent). 


By Gregor Aisch, Wilson Andrews, Alicia Parlapiano and Derek Willis. Albert Sun contributed to data collection. 









More on NYTimes.com








Election 2016: What to Know About the Presidential Race Today
APRIL 17, 2015









Who Is Running for President?
JAN. 30, 2015









Which Presidential Candidates Are Winning the Money Race
JULY 15, 2015









Million-Dollar Donors in the 2016 Presidential Race
JULY 31, 2015









2016 Primary Calendar and Results
APRIL 14, 2015











Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















