
  




Web Upgrade HTML 5 May Weaken Privacy - The New York Times
































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Media|New Web Code Draws Concern Over Privacy Risks



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Media 
New Web Code Draws Concern Over Privacy Risks

By TANZINA VEGAOCT. 10, 2010


Inside











Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Worries over Internet privacy have spurred lawsuits, conspiracy theories and consumer anxiety as marketers and others invent new ways to track computer users on the Internet. But the alarmists have not seen anything yet.







In the next few years, a powerful new suite of capabilities will become available to Web developers that could give marketers and advertisers access to many more details about computer users’ online activities. Nearly everyone who uses the Internet will face the privacy risks that come with those capabilities, which are an integral part of the Web language that will soon power the Internet: HTML 5.The new Web code, the fifth version of Hypertext Markup Language used to create Web pages, is already in limited use, and it promises to usher in a new era of Internet browsing within the next few years. It will make it easier for users to view multimedia content without downloading extra software; check e-mail offline; or find a favorite restaurant or shop on a smartphone. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    





Times Topic: Privacy 






Most users will clearly welcome the additional features that come with the new Web language.
Photo






Samy Kamkar created software to show how thoroughly computers could be infiltrated by the latest Web technology.

Credit
            Jock Fistick for The New York Times        


“It’s going to change everything about the Internet and the way we use it today,” said James Cox, 27, a freelance consultant and software developer at Smokeclouds, a New York City start-up company. “It’s not just HTML 5. It’s the new Web.”But others, while also enthusiastic about the changes, are more cautious.Most Web users are familiar with so-called cookies, which make it possible, for example, to log on to Web sites without having to retype user names and passwords, or to keep track of items placed in virtual shopping carts before they are bought.The new Web language and its additional features present more tracking opportunities because the technology uses a process in which large amounts of data can be collected and stored on the user’s hard drive while online. Because of that process, advertisers and others could, experts say, see weeks or even months of personal data. That could include a user’s location, time zone, photographs, text from blogs, shopping cart contents, e-mails and a history of the Web pages visited.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
The new Web language “gives trackers one more bucket to put tracking information into,” said Hakon Wium Lie, the chief technology officer at Opera, a browser company.Or as Pam Dixon, the executive director of the World Privacy Forum in California, said: “HTML 5 opens Pandora’s box of tracking in the Internet.”

Representatives from the World Wide Web Consortium say they are taking questions about user privacy very seriously. The organization, which oversees the specifications developers turn to for the new Web language, will hold a two-day workshop on Internet technologies and privacy.Ian Jacobs, head of communications at the consortium, said the development process for the new Web language would include a public review. “There is accountability,” he said. “This is not a secret cabal for global adoption of these core standards.”
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
The additional capabilities provided by the new Web language are already being put to use by a California programmer who has created what, at first glance, could be a major new threat to online privacy.Samy Kamkar, a California programmer best known in some circles for creating a virus called the “Samy Worm,” which took down MySpace.com in 2005, has created a cookie that is not easily deleted, even by experts — something he calls an Evercookie.Some observers call it a “supercookie” because it stores information in at least 10 places on a computer, far more than usually found. It combines traditional tracking tools with new features that come with the new Web language.In creating the cookie, Mr. Kamkar has drawn comments from bloggers across the Internet whose descriptions of it range from “extremely persistent” to “horrific.”Mr. Kamkar, however, said he did not create it to violate anyone’s privacy. He said was curious about how advertisers tracked him on the Internet. After cataloging what he found on his computer, he made the Evercookie to demonstrate just how thoroughly people’s computers could be infiltrated by the latest Internet technology.

“I think it’s O.K. for them to say we want to provide better service,” Mr. Kamkar said of advertisers who placed tracking cookies on his computer. “However, I should also be able to opt out because it is my computer.”

Mr. Kamkar, whose 2005 virus circumvented browser safeguards and added more than a million “friends” to his MySpace page in less than 20 hours, said he had no plans to profit from the Evercookie and did not intend to sell it to advertisers.“That wouldn’t have been difficult,” he said. Instead, he has made the code open to anyone who wants to examine it and says the cookie should be used “as a litmus test for preventing tracking.”A recent spate of class-action lawsuits have accused large media companies like the Fox Entertainment Group and NBC Universal, and technology companies like Clearspring Technologies and Quantcast, of violating users’ privacy by tracking their online activities even after they took steps to prevent that.Most people control their online privacy by adjusting settings in today’s most common Web browsers, which include Internet Explorer by Microsoft, Firefox by Mozilla, Safari by Apple and Opera, which is used mostly in Europe and Asia and on mobile devices.Each browser has different privacy settings, but not all of them have obvious settings for removing data created by the new Web language. Even the most proficient  software engineers and developers acknowledge  that deleting that data is tricky and may require multiple steps.“Now there are so many sources of data storage, it’s very hard for browser manufacturers to handle that,” Mr. Cox said.Mr. Kamkar and privacy experts say that makers of Web browsers  should agree on one control for eliminating all tracking capabilities at once. “There should be simple enough controls to take care of every single thing,” said Ms. Dixon, who added that some browsers automatically collected large amounts of data unless a user told them not to.

Mr. Lie acknowledged that such companies “do have a lot of power.” But he said they worry that the privacy settings they develop could be too strict.  For example, he said Opera once tried to put more controls on certain types of cookies, but users in Russia complained that the controls prevented a popular social networking site from working properly.But software developers and the representatives of the World Wide Web argue that as technology advances, consumers have to balance its speed and features against their ability to control their privacy.“You can do more, but you need to be aware of how your information might be used or misused,” Mr. Jacobs said. “It’s the human questions.”


A version of this article appears in print on October 11, 2010, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Web Code Offers New Ways To See What Users Do Online.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















