
  




Review: ‘NOW.’ Uses Technology to Pair Dancers Thousands of Miles Apart - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Dance|Review: ‘NOW.’ Uses Technology to Pair Dancers Thousands of Miles Apart



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1KQoMIf




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Dance 
Review: ‘NOW.’ Uses Technology to Pair Dancers Thousands of Miles Apart

By BRIAN SEIBERTJAN. 31, 2016


Inside








Photo






Pat Catterson’s show “NOW.”

Credit
            Julieta Cervantes for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



If you have used Skype, you know the sound: a low-fi digitization of numbers being dialed on a touch-tone phone, followed by a burbly version of a phone ringing. Even if you grew up before the age of the Internet, the sound is familiar enough, though if someone answers on the other end, and the connection is good, then not just the voice but also the video image of that person appears, wherever that person’s body might be in the world at that moment.This already commonplace technology is at the center of “NOW.,” the 108th work of the veteran choreographer Pat Catterson. At New York University’s Tisch School of the Arts on Saturday afternoon, eight excellent dancers performed — as did the Skype images of nine more, whose physical bodies were elsewhere, each alone in a dance studio in South America, Europe or Japan. It was one of those the-way-we-live-now kind of works, both homespun and high-tech, with elements familiar and unsettlingly novel.“NOW.” was a complicated, 75-minute installation. Spectators in New York moved freely between two rooms. In one, you could watch two overlapping series of duets, almost all involving a dancer close enough to touch and the life-size image of one thousands of miles away. At the start of each duet, a student technician made the Skype call — a bit of logistical suspense with every ring — before the dancers gave their names, locations and the local time.Occasionally, the physical-virtual pairs moved in unison, their synchronization loosened by technological glitches as well as by idiosyncratic timing. (There was no music.) Such loose synchronization has long been an intentional feature of Ms. Catterson’s works. She wants her dancers to take her material — lucid Cunningham-based phrases that sometimes wander into whimsy — and make it their own, a process that Skype facilitates and subtly alters.Dance studios across the world look rather similar, and this similarity intermittently fostered an illusion that the dancers were not just doing the same things but also inhabiting the same space. The in-the-moment, often playful physical communication between dancers on different continents, who may have never met in person, approached the usual interactions at closer distances.Yet the divide was there, an enormous distance that symmetries and mirrorings oddly served to stress. I found the one duet between two Skype dancers, side by side on a screen, easier to watch. Same with the ensemble choreography in the other room, which cleverly emphasized the proximity of multiple bodies in lines and pileups. For all of the questions it raised about time and technology, “NOW.” was ultimately a warm celebration of dancers and how they connect.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















