



RON HOWARD PRODUCING 'MAXIMUM SECURITY,' SERIES ON HBO - NYTimes.com































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/style, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Style





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
Fashion & StyleDining & WineHome & GardenWeddings/CelebrationsT MagazineInternational DiningInternational Style 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








RON HOWARD PRODUCING 'MAXIMUM SECURITY,' SERIES ON HBO


By STEPHEN FARBER


Published: March 4, 1985









LOS ANGELES, March 3— 
                    Hollywood production companies have relied on most of the city's smarter restaurants to hold luncheons and cocktail parties to announce upcoming films and television shows. But last week producers turned to the recently closed Lincoln Heights jail in downtown Los Angeles for a news conference to introduce the principals involved in creating ''Maximum Security,'' a series that will begin on Home Box Office, the pay-cable service, on Tuesday at 10 P.M.        

                    The production company had filmed the television series in the abandoned prison last summer, when the temperature in the windowless edifice sometimes climbed to 110 degrees. Robert Desiderio and Geoffrey Lewis star as convicts and Jean Smart plays the prison psychologist in the series, which is produced by Ron Howard's Major H Productions in association with New World Television.        

                    The idea for ''Maximum Security'' came from Iris Dugow, HBO's West Coast senior vice president in charge of original programming. ''I wanted to do something that you could not see on network TV,'' Miss Dugow said. ''We could do a prison show with the frankness that the subject required.''        

                    'Opportunity to Take Chances'        

                    When Miss Dugow approached Tony Ganz, a producer with Mr. Howard's Major H Productions, he was initially reluctant to become involved. ''Most of our development is in feature films, and we weren't sure we wanted to do a series,'' Mr. Ganz said. ''But Iris convinced me that we could do something very tough- minded for cable. We saw this as an opportunity to take some chances with stories and with the talent we hired. We were able to bring in some off-center writers and directors.''        

                    Among them were Frank South, a playwright, who wrote one episode and served as staff writer on the rest; Gilbert Moses, a New York theater director who directed a two-part segment; Karen Hall, a writer from ''Hill Street Blues,'' and Michael Bortman, an acclaimed writer of television movies who was given his first directing job on ''Maximum Security.''        

                    All of the creators of the series were determined to make it as realistic as possible. The writer of the pilot, Joel Blasberg, had actually worked as a prison parole officer in Minnesota. In planning the series, he and Mr. Ganz visited Folsom Prison, a maximum security prison outside Sacramento, Calif. Mr. Desiderio also visited several prisons in preparing for his role. The series deals candidly with homosexuality in prison and also contains some raw language.        

                    Mr. Howard, who, along with Mr. Ganz, is credited as executive producer of ''Maximum Security,'' was directing the science-fiction epic ''Cocoon'' while the series was being filmed, so he was not on location. He did, however, work closely with Mr. Ganz in planning the series.        

                    Not Abandoning TV        

                    As the man behind last year's hit comedy ''Splash,'' Mr. Howard has become one of the most sought-after feature film directors. But he said he has no intention of abandoning television, the medium where he achieved much of his early success. ''Once I become more secure in my career as a feature director,'' he said, ''I would like to move back and forth between films and television. I especially like cable as a medium for stories that don't quite fit anywhere else.''        

                    His production company has other television projects in development, including a film for CBS and one for Showtime. He said that a prison drama like ''Maximum Security'' was ideal for television. ''I think this is a perfect medium for a prison story,'' he said, ''because in prison people are confined for a long period of time. An ongoing series offers a great opportunity to see the characters evolve over time. I think that's something that a television series can do more effectively than a feature film.''        

                    Although the pilot of ''Maximum Security'' - which aired last summer - performed well in homes subscribing to HBO, the fate of the series is still uncertain. Only six episodes have been filmed so far, and HBO will evaluate the response to those initial shows before deciding whether to continue the series.        

                    Mr. Howard said he was frustrated at HBO's reluctance to commit to a longer run. ''Each episode was getting better,'' he said, ''and just as we were hitting our stride, we had to go on hiatus to wait for the reactions.''        

                    Photo of Ron Howard        








 














 



















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/style, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Inv1
