
  




Ruling Clears Way for Jury Verdict on Former Goldman Sachs Programmer - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





DealBook|Ruling Clears Way for Jury Verdict on Former Goldman Sachs Programmer



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Hb9r7i




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement











 



Supported by




Ruling Clears Way for Jury Verdict on Former Goldman Sachs Programmer

By BEN PROTESSAPRIL 20, 2015



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Sergey Aleynikov, right, and his lawyer, Kevin Marino, in 2012. Mr. Aleynikov was convicted in federal court, then acquitted.

Credit
            Pool photo by Steven Hirsch        


The criminal case against Sergey Aleynikov — the former Goldman Sachs programmer who was convicted in federal court, then acquitted, only to be charged again in state court — will soon head to a jury after Mr. Aleynikov’s last-ditch effort to toss out the case came up short.In a ruling on Monday in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, the judge overseeing the weekslong case rejected Mr. Aleynikov’s request for a dismissal, handing a victory to prosecutors who accused Mr. Aleynikov of stealing secret source code from Goldman’s computers. The ruling by Justice Daniel P. Conviser will now prolong a resolution to the long-running tale, which began nearly six years ago when Mr. Aleynikov was arrested on the Fourth of July holiday weekend at Newark Liberty International Airport.While some of Mr. Aleynikov’s arguments appeared to resonate with Justice Conviser — the judge left open the possibility that, if the jury were to convict Mr. Aleynikov, he might overturn the verdict — the effort was considered a long shot. Judges rarely toss out cases midtrial, in part because prosecutors cannot appeal such decisions. Dismissing a case at this point is an extreme step that must happen only when trial evidence is “not legally sufficient” to establish the charges.And after nearly two hours of oral arguments on Monday, and a five-minute recess, Justice Conviser rebuffed Mr. Aleynikov’s request.“That, in my view, would be fundamentally unfair,” Justice Conviser said, referring to the lack of appeal for prosecutors at the Manhattan district attorney’s office. “With all due respect to me, I sometimes get it wrong.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

In an opinion read from the bench, Justice Conviser hinted at some skepticism about the prosecution’s case, which hinges on varying interpretations of state laws.“I think there certainly are issues about whether these charges are legally sufficient,” Justice Conviser said.At one point during oral arguments, for example, Justice Conviser remarked that while he understood what prosecutors were saying on a particular issue, “I don’t agree with it.”Mr. Aleynikov’s lawyer, Kevin Marino, had asked the judge to toss out all three charges. While Mr. Aleynikov downloaded part of Goldman’s high-frequency trading code onto his home computer before leaving for a new job, Mr. Marino claimed that doing so was a breach of the bank’s confidentiality agreement, not state laws.Citing trial testimony and past court rulings in the case, Mr. Marino argued that the prosecution failed to meet several elements of proof required by the laws, including that the download must have constituted a “tangible reproduction” and that Mr. Aleynikov must have acquired “the major economic value” of the code.With a booming voice and theatrical flair, Mr. Marino remarked that, while he would delight in delivering closing arguments in the case, that was “one of the great pleasures in life that I could do without.” (Mr. Marino is likely to present a small number of witnesses on Tuesday, leaving open the possibility that the case will go to the jury this week).Prosecutors argued that Mr. Marino was relying on federal court rulings, and that he misinterpreted the underlying state laws at play in the case. But after some stumbles in the case — and a number of court decisions against federal and state prosecutors who charged Mr. Aleynikov — there was reason to doubt whether Justice Conviser would have ruled on Monday to allow the case to proceed.In 2012, a federal appeals court in New York reversed Mr. Aleynikov’s conviction, ruling that federal prosecutors had misapplied the corporate espionage laws against him. Then, after the Manhattan district attorney’s office took up the case anew, a state court judge tossed out much of the evidence against him, finding that the F.B.I. had conducted an illegal search and arrest of Mr. Aleynikov.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Last week, Justice Conviser ruled that prosecutors could not call an expert witness to testify because they had failed to inform Mr. Marino of such plans.But on Monday, as the arguments wore on, Justice Conviser seemed unconvinced.“I’m here with my pants around my ankles,” Mr. Marino said nearing the end of his argument, prompting Justice Conviser to reply: “I don’t think your pants are around their ankles.”Mr. Marino quickly clarified: “Well, they’re definitely slipping.”

A version of this article appears in print on April 21, 2015, on page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: Ruling Clears Way for Jury Verdict on Former Goldman Sachs Programmer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage






New Stumbles by Prosecutors in Trial of Former Goldman Programmer
APRIL 14, 2015
























Related Coverage







New Stumbles by Prosecutors in Trial of Former Goldman Programmer
APRIL 14, 2015









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















