
  




Supreme Court to Rule on Secrecy of Petition Names - The New York Times































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|Court to Rule on Right to Privacy for Referendum Petition Signers



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
Court to Rule on Right to Privacy for Referendum Petition Signers

By ADAM LIPTAKJAN. 15, 2010


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to decide whether the First Amendment requires that the names of people who sign ballot-initiative petitions be kept secret.As in the court’s decision on Wednesday to block the broadcasting of the trial of a  challenge to a ban on same-sex marriage in California, the appeal was brought by opponents of such unions who said they feared harassment should their views be made widely known.The new case arose from an effort to overturn a Washington State domestic partnership law known as the “everything but marriage” act. Opponents of the law gathered more than 130,000 signatures, enough to place a referendum on the November ballot.Several groups asked the state to turn over the names, under its public records law, and two groups said they intended to post the names on the Internet. Their goal, according to a news release, was to encourage conversations among friends, relatives and neighbors that “can be uncomfortable for both parties.”Protect Marriage Washington, a group that supports traditional marriage, sued to block release of the names, saying disclosure would probably result in “threats, harassment and reprisal.”A federal judge granted the request, but the judge’s order was overturned by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco.The Ninth Circuit panel said it was unclear whether petition signatures were speech protected by the First Amendment. In any event, it  said, the signatures were gathered in public with no promise of confidentiality and collected on sheets with space for 20 signatures each.Even if the names had warranted some First Amendment protection, the panel said, that protection was overridden by two justifications: protecting the integrity of elections through transparency and providing voters with information about who supported placing the referendum on the ballot.As in the same-sex marriage case, the Supreme Court intervened at an unusually early stage in the Washington case, staying the Ninth Circuit’s ruling in October. That had the effect of blocking disclosure of the names through the election in November. The effort to overturn the everything-but-marriage act failed.Washington Families Standing Together, a group supporting equal rights for same-sex couples, joined the State of Washington last month in urging the Supreme Court not to hear the case. The group said the evidence of potential harassment was limited to “a small handful of cursory declarations, many of which concern incidents occurring in California or elsewhere.”James Bopp Jr., a lawyer for Protect Marriage Washington, said in a statement that the Ninth Circuit’s decision infringed “the rights of citizens who support a traditional definition of marriage to speak freely and without fear.”“No citizen,” Mr. Bopp  added, “should ever worry that they will be threatened or injured because they have exercised their right to engage in the political process.”The Supreme Court’s decision in the case, Doe v. Reed, No. 09-559,  is expected by late June.


A version of this article appears in print on January 16, 2010, on page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Court to Rule on Right to Privacy For Referendum Petition Signers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















