
  




San Francisco Will Have U.S. Review Police Tactics - The New York Times







































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





U.S.|San Francisco Will Have U.S. Review Police Tactics



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1NNzq26




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



U.S. 
San Francisco Will Have U.S. Review Police Tactics

By TIMOTHY WILLIAMSFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






Gwen Woods, the mother of Mario Woods, who was fatally shot by San Francisco police officers, at a Board of Supervisors meeting last month.

Credit
            Jim Wilson/The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



The Justice Department announced Monday that it will conduct a sweeping review of the San Francisco Police Department, looking at everything from episodes involving the use of force to officer training and stops of civilians.







The review was requested by Edwin M. Lee, San Francisco’s mayor, after police officers fatally shot an African-American man, Mario Woods, 26, on a city street on Dec. 2. Mobile phone video of the shooting was made public, prompting protests and calls for the police chief’s resignation.“This will be a very in-depth analysis,” said Noble Wray, who heads the federal office responsible for the review. “It is a tremendous asset to law enforcement for the Justice Department to come in and provide technical assistance.”San Francisco is the latest big city over the past year to have a federal review of its police department, after Chicago, 
Baltimore, Philadelphia and Milwaukee. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









San Francisco Police Chief Faces Calls for Resignation After Fatal ShootingDEC. 10, 2015











Inquiry to Examine Racial Bias in the San Francisco PoliceMAY 7, 2015







The inquiries into the departments were prompted in part by the deaths of African-Americans at the hands of police officers, and by the release of cellphone videos recorded by bystanders that called into question the circumstances and frequency in which police officers shoot people.Because San Francisco sought the federal review, following the recommendations of the Justice Department’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services will be voluntary.But if San Francisco fails to make changes quickly enough, the Justice Department could sue to force an overhaul, as it has done in nearly two dozen cities in recent years.Mobile phone videos of Mr. Woods’s shooting were disseminated online; some of the footage was taken by people in a nearby city bus. The videos show Mr. Woods surrounded by several police officers who have their guns drawn and aimed at him. The police said Mr. Woods had a knife.Mr. Woods, who is initially seen standing with his back to a wall, appears to be agitated and is gesturing with his arms.As Mr. Woods starts to walk away, his arms at his sides, a police officer is seen stepping into his path and firing his weapon. At least 15 shots were fired by at least five officers, the police said.The police said that Mr. Woods was being investigated in connection with a nonfatal stabbing earlier in the day, and that the officers were trying to prevent him from harming others. The department said that the officers had used pepper spray and fired bean bag rounds to try to disarm Mr. Woods, but that they could not get him to drop the knife.The shooting led to numerous protests and calls for the firing of Greg Suhr, San Francisco’s police chief, who has said his officers should be equipped with Tasers to prevent similar shootings.Chief Suhr announced his own changes in the weeks after the shootings, including a directive that officers file use-of-force reports after they point their gun at someone — a requirement that has long been standard in other departments.The chief also said officers’ training is now more focused on ways to de-escalate potentially fatal encounters, and less on using deadly force.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Mr. Woods’s family has filed a federal civil rights lawsuit against the city.The federal review announced on Monday will include interviewing members of the city’s shrinking African-American population, which has long complained that police officers have mistreated them, including frequently using excessive force and making arrests in minority neighborhoods for small amounts of marijuana that would be ignored elsewhere in the city.The review will take 18 to 24 months, the Justice Department said.The shooting of Mr. Woods occurred several months after more than a dozen San Francisco police officers were found to have exchanged text messages that discussed lynching African-Americans, and that disparaged gays, Mexicans, Filipinos and others.Chief Suhr sought to fire some of the officers involved, but in December a Superior Court judge ruled that the department had illegally tried to discipline the officers after the expiration of a one-year statute of limitations.A review of some 3,000 cases handled by the officers who sent and received the text messages is continuing, to determine if the arrests or prosecutions were tainted by the officers’ beliefs.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















