



SECURITY -  County Airport Gets Tank And More Police Officers - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










N.Y. / Region





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








SECURITY
SECURITY; County Airport Gets Tank And More Police Officers


By COREY KILGANNON


Published: September 30, 2001









                    PASSENGERS accustomed to the mild-mannered feel at Westchester County Airport might be intimidated by the blue military-style tank parked out front these days. But the airport manager, Joel Russell, said that the vehicle,  which belongs to the county police, ''sends a message about our police presence here.''        

                    ''I like it,'' Mr. Russell said last week. ''It's symbolic and it has a practical use too.''        

                    Creating a warm impression for passengers is not a priority right now, he said. In fact, the airport is set to install a bomb-proof ''curtain'' in the parking lot to protect the nearby passenger terminal from a possible car bomb.        

                    Bomb squads with dogs routinely inspect all parked vehicles. As it is, half of the 1,200-car parking lot is already closed, because many parking spaces are within a 300-foot radius of the terminal, an area that must remain free of parked cars.        

                    After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the county airport was closed for several days. It is now operating under ''level four'' security regulations mandated by the Federal Aviation Administration.        

                    Dozens of county police officers are out in front of the terminal operating vehicle checkpoints. They stop all cars approaching the terminal and ask all passengers for driver's licenses and proof of official business at the airport. Officers search trunks and conduct random bag searches. Traffic congestion and delays often result.        

                    Curb-side baggage check-in is prohibited, and the traffic lane in front of the main terminal is closed.        

                    But for all the activity outside, there is little bustle inside the terminal. Concessions -- including the restaurant, bar, snack bar and newsstand -- are often empty. The terminal was so quiet one weekday morning last week, a commercial was filmed there.        

                    One exception is the gate to boarding areas, where a half-dozen county police officers now oversee security workers inspecting baggage and passengers.        

                    Mr. Russell said airlines have resumed 80 percent of their scheduled flights, but with far fewer passengers flying. Staff and passengers say that planes are far from full.        

                    Edgar Herrera, who works at the Westchester Airport Newsstand, said that business has been less than half the past weeks, and that his hours have been cut.        

                    Last Tuesday, Sharon Resnick and her husband, Marvin, enjoyed all the room they wanted at the airport. They occupied a whole row of waiting chairs, sitting several seats apart and draping their belongings over four chairs between them.        

                    The Resnicks had spent five days visiting their daughter in Cos Cob and were heading home to Minneapolis.        

                    The county urges travelers to take taxis and limousines and get to the airport at least two hours in advance of their flights. The Resnicks did both, and now they were waiting.        

                    ''There are much more delays with the security, but there are no check-in lines because nobody's flying,'' Ms. Resnick said. ''Coming here, our plane was maybe one-third full.''        

                    She added: ''This is probably the safest time to be in the air. If terrorists are going to do anything else, they're not going to do it by air.''        

                    That was the sentiment among passengers at the airport bar too. They watched three television sets, one showing Quik Draw lottery results, another showing flight information and a third set showing the news. Travelers talked about stock market woes and speculated about why terrorists were able to hijack four American planes on Sep. 11.        

                    ''These X-ray security guard jobs practically pay minimum wage,'' said Julie Leslin, 24, a radio broadcaster from Minneapolis. ''Half the time, these people aren't even paying attention.''        

                    Not all business is suffering at the airport. There are several charter plane companies there, and more travelers are choosing this way to fly instead of commercial airlines, said Millie Hernandez-Becker, who co-owns one of them, Westchester Air.        

                    Photos: A Westchester County police officer, carrying an automatic weapon, above, and other officers, right, checked identifications of drivers entering the county airport. (Photographs by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Inv1
