



SECURITY -  Closed Watershed Land Leads to Stores' Hardship - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










N.Y. / Region





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








SECURITY
SECURITY; Closed Watershed Land Leads to Stores' Hardship


By COREY KILGANNON


Published: February 10, 2002









MAHOPAC— 
                    INSIDE Bobcat Sports, a bait and tackle store here, a handwritten, cardboard sign is taped above the door. ''Intire Buisness $49,000.00,'' it reads. ''Selling for health reasons.'' For years, the sign was meant as a joke by the store's owner, Richard Homan. But these days, the joke has a new punch line. These days, nobody would offer a hill of beans for Bobcat Sports.        

                    Business has dried up since Sept. 11, when New York City's Department of Environmental Protection closed all watershed land for security reasons. The measure was taken to prevent possible terrorist acts, including bioterrorism or damage to reservoir dams.        

                    All recreational activity on watershed land was suspended. No Trespassing signs appeared everywhere, and violators were subject to arrest. The land has remained closed. Department officials will not say for sure when it will re-open, though a tentative date, April 1, has been set.        

                    The prolonged closure has left a lot of angry anglers, who have virtually nowhere to fish locally. Roughly 20,000 people hold fishing permits for the watershed.        

                    Businesses like Mr. Homan's that depended on fishing have suffered, as have businesses serving activities like hunting and hiking.  Before Sept. 11, Mr. Homan said, he could take in about $400 on a good day, and up to $1,000 on a weekend day. Now, he said, $50 in sales is a blessing any day. ''I'm just hanging on and hoping for the best,'' he said on Wednesday, looking around at his dusty inventory of lures, hooks and sinkers. ''I'm paying my rent with this,'' he said, pulling his MasterCard from his wallet. Most other bait and tackle businesses, he said, have either failed or shifted entirely to selling  flowers, auto parts or pet food.        

                    ''My bait distributor tells me I'm the only regular customer from Mamaroneck to Kingston, and I'm only buying once a week.''  The anglers who happened into the store last week said they were angry that the city has not reopened the watershed property.        

                    ''At first everyone understood, but how long are they going to take?'' said Andy Berger of Cornwall-on-Hudson, an avid reservoir fisherman. ''Everyone's saying we should get back to normal, but the city still keeps this land closed. They've taken away the best part of living up here.'' He suggested that the reservoirs' first line of protection is the fishermen, hunters and hikers who act as ''the eyes and ears of the watershed.''        

                    Charles Sturcken, chief of staff for the city's D.E.P., which owns the watershed property, said that ''the target is April 1'' for reopening the watershed for recreation, but that the department must consult with federal agencies, including the F.B.I., regarding security issues.        

                    ''I can't say for sure that we will be open by then, but it's the goal,''  he said. ''We want the fishermen to get out there as soon as possible.''        

                    The department will require all recreational users of watershed land to reapply for permits to compile an updated list. Mr. Sturcken said that this is being done for security reasons.        

                    The department has allocated $30 million to improve security around the watershed, including motion sensors, cameras and  fencing. The watershed system supplies about 1.3 billion gallons daily, mostly to New York City, but also to parts of several counties in the Hudson Valley. It covers some 2,000 square miles in Westchester, Putnam and the Catskills.        

                    Of the dozen or so bait and tackle shops in Northern Westchester and lower Putnam, most have closed or shifted business plans.        

                    At the Cross River Sportsman's Shack in Cross River business has declined so drastically that the store's owner, Zeke Hunter, sold off all his fishing inventory at a 60 percent discount. Now he sells antiques.  Bob's Sport and Tackle, in Somers, the fishing business declined so much that its owner, Lucy Weizenecker, began selling pet food and supplies to stay afloat.        

                    Ralph Ristaino opened R&R Sports Center, a bait and tackle shop in North White Plains, in 1953. He closed it in December.        

                    Mr. Homan said many fishermen promised to fish the reservoirs on April 1, regardless of the city's decision. Carl (Buddy)  Burstell leaned on Mr. Homan's counter, sipped from a can of beer, and nodded.        

                    ''You can bet your life I'll be there fishing,'' said Mr. Burstell, a retired I.B.M. researcher. ''No matter what.''        

                    Photo: At Lake Gleneida in Carmel. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Inv1
