
  




Serena Williams Says Sharapova’s Announcement Surprised Her - The New York Times



































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Tennis|Serena Williams Says Sharapova’s Announcement Surprised Her



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/24OGQi4




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Tennis 
Serena Williams Says Sharapova’s Announcement Surprised Her

By FILIP BONDYMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






Serena Williams spoke at a news conference on Tuesday at Madison Square Garden before her exhibition match with Caroline Wozniacki.

Credit
            Brendan Mcdermid/Reuters        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Serena Williams may soon become the richest endorser in women’s tennis, if only by default.







Williams frequently comes in second to Sharapova on lists of the highest-paid female athletes. But Sharapova now faces a suspension and loss of sponsorship from several companies after she announced Monday that she had tested positive for meldonium, a banned substance.Williams would not second-guess Nike, her own longtime endorser, for reexamining its relationship with Sharapova.“They’re successful. They make their own decisions,” Williams said Tuesday, before an exhibition match at Madison Square Garden against her good friend Caroline Wozniacki. “They obviously know how to make decisions.” 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Maria Sharapova Admits Taking Meldonium, Drug Newly Banned by TennisMARCH 7, 2016











All About Meldonium, the Banned Drug Used by SharapovaMARCH 8, 2016







Williams and Sharapova have been two of Nike’s most visible spokeswomen in recent years. Last year, Sharapova reportedly earned $23 million in endorsements, while Williams’s total was around $13 million. Sharapova has won five major titles to Williams’s 21. Nike, along with TAG Heuer and Porsche, quickly suspended ties with Sharapova after her news conference Monday.Williams expressed her surprise at Sharapova’s announcement.“Like everyone else, most people were surprised and shocked,” she said. “But most people are happy with the fact she was upfront with what she had done in terms of what she had neglected. With that being said, she’s taking responsibility, which she was ready to do.”While sympathetic toward Sharapova, Williams did not ask tennis officials to extend any special treatment toward the Russian. She also did not think Sharapova would face unfairly harsh treatment as a female player. Sharapova is, by far, the most prominent female tennis player to test positive for a performance-enhancing drug.“In sport and in life, there’s always a double standard,” Williams said. “Everyone knows that, whether it’s a race thing or sex thing. However, this is a different thing. As Maria said, she’s ready to take responsibility. And that takes courage and heart.”Sharapova, who will be provisionally suspended from all tennis tournaments beginning Saturday, could face anything from a slap on the wrist to a lengthy ban. Sharapova said that she failed to check the updated banned substances list for 2016, which included meldonium for the first time. Sharapova said she had taken the drug for health reasons since 2006.According to Wozniacki, it is nusual for a player not to be up-to-date on the banned list.“Any time we take any medication, we double- and triple-check,” Wozniacki said. “Sometimes even a thing like cough drops and nasal spray can be on the list. So as athletes we make sure not to take something that would put us in a bad situation.”Based on Sharapova’s admission, Williams played against her quite often while Sharapova was using the drug. Williams has defeated Sharapova 18 times in a row and would not say Tuesday that she faced a disadvantage in any of those matches.“I don’t think I’m the best person to ask that question,” Williams said.
Continue reading the main story







Sports Newsletter
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
It was a day of celebration and reflection among tennis insiders, still trying to digest Sharapova’s announcement. The International Tennis Hall of Fame announced that Justine Henin and Marat Safin would be inducted in July, becoming the first players from Belgium and Russia to attain that status.Henin faced Sharapova 10 times from 2005 to 2010, defeating her in seven of those matches.“It’s not nice what happened,” Henin said. “Not good for the game and not good for Maria at the moment. We’re not in position to judge. Some questions need to be asked and it’s hard to give an opinion. But rules have to be followed.”Safin said he hoped that Sharapova’s admission about meldonium was “a technical mistake.”“I don’t think it’s intentional,” he said. “I want to believe so.”





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















