
  




SFX Entertainment Declares Bankruptcy - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Media|SFX Entertainment Declares Bankruptcy



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Q7zzzd




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Media 
SFX Entertainment Declares Bankruptcy

By BEN SISARIOFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






SFX Entertainment’s Electric Zoo music festival last September in New York. According to an announcement, the company’s many festivals will go on as planned.

Credit
            Krista Schlueter for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



SFX Entertainment, the company created four years ago to capitalize on the popularity of dance music festivals, declared bankruptcy on Monday, after a troubled year in which the company’s founder abandoned a takeover bid and its stock plunged by more than 95 percent.The bankruptcy reorganization will take the company private, eliminate more than $300 million in debt from its balance sheet and install a new chief executive to replace Robert F.X. Sillerman, who founded SFX in 2012 with a dream of creating a media empire around dance music.As part of the deal, a group of the company’s bondholders will convert their debt into equity and provide $115 million in financing. According to an announcement, the company’s many festivals around the world, including Electric Zoo, Tomorrowland, Mysteryland and Stereosonic, will go on as planned, and other businesses, like its digital music store Beatport, will remain operational.“This expression of confidence from our lenders is testimonial to the vibrancy and potential of our business,” Mr. Sillerman said in a statement. “Of course this was not where we thought we’d be, but with this restructuring we have the opportunity to achieve all that SFX can and will be.”Mr. Sillerman, who owns about 40 percent of the company’s shares according to his most recent filings, said that he would remain the chairman of SFX and that the company would begin searching for a new chief executive immediately.The bankruptcy, which in recent weeks had been the subject of speculation in the music world and on Wall Street, brings to an end a painful stretch for SFX and Mr. Sillerman, who hoped to repeat the success he had two decades ago with an earlier incarnation of SFX Entertainment. In that company, he combined concert promoters around the country and in 2000 sold the enterprise to the broadcaster Clear Channel — now known as iHeartMedia — for $4.4 billion. That network of promoters and theaters remains the basis of Live Nation Entertainment’s concert division.But the new version of SFX has been much more troubled. The company raised $260 million in an initial public offering in late 2013, but investors grew impatient with its efforts to build a profitable business by attracting corporate sponsors. Events like a Las Vegas edition of the Brazilian festival Rock in Rio also had disappointing results.Last year, Mr. Sillerman offered to take the company private at $5.25 a share, valuing the company at $774 million, including its debt. But investors doubted that Mr. Sillerman had lined up the proper financing, and the company’s shares began to plunge. By August, Mr. Sillerman abandoned his bid, and problems continued to mount through the fall. Last month the company disclosed that it was in default because it had failed to make a $3 million payment on a $10.8 million promissory note.SFX’s reorganization raises questions about the future of the company, including whether pieces of it will be bought by rivals in the concert and live-entertainment businesses. Last year, while Mr. Sillerman’s takeover bid was being considered by the board, the company disclosed that it received interest from bidders for parts of its business, but did not identify the parties.Despite SFX’s problems, the dance-music world has largely remained strong. Festivals like Coachella, which involve many dance acts as headliners, are still popular, and by one estimate the global market for dance music, including recordings, live performances, endorsements and other deals, is worth $6.9 billion a year.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















