
  




So You Thought You Canceled the Contract - The New York Times








































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Your Money|So You Thought You Canceled the Contract



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1dsx9Z5




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Your Money 
So You Thought You Canceled the Contract



The Haggler 
By                     
 DAVID SEGAL
 
JULY 13, 2013




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo







Credit
            Christoph Hitz        


IT’S a shame that no one sells a home alarm system that can detect unscrupulous home alarm system salesmen. Now that is a product that a lot of people could use.Q. In September 2009, I had a home alarm system from Security Networks installed, and signed up for a 39-month contract, which ended in December 2012. Because of issues with installation and customer service, I decided that I would cancel the contract at the end of the term. In October last year, I sent a cancellation letter to the company, which is based in West Palm Beach, Fla.But in January, I noticed that the company had billed my credit card. I called Security Networks, and it told me that I had signed a five-year extension in May, and that my contract was not over until 2017.After I told the company about my cancellation letter, it e-mailed me a copy of a form that it said was a contract extension. And there was my signature, scrawled right on it. I was baffled until I recalled that a guy from Security Networks had shown up on my doorstep in May. He told me that he was doing a “system checkout” and that he would be back in a few minutes.He returned, and asked me to sign a form acknowledging the visit. The white piece of paper that he showed me was on a clipboard with papers folded back, obscuring the top of the page. I signed the form.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

It turns out that the top and hidden part was a contract extension.I filed a complaint with the Better Business Bureau, disputed the charge on my credit card and canceled my credit card to stop paying the company. But Security Networks says it expects me to pay or that it will ruin my credit rating.I was told that I could “buy out” the contract if I sent Security Networks almost $1,000, or that I could transfer the entire contract to a “friend, relative or neighbor.” No way. I would never foist this company onto anyone.I contacted a lawyer, who told me that he would need a $3,000 retainer to take the case. The entire five-year contract will cost $2,279.40, so the lawyer route doesn’t make financial sense.I am actually losing sleep over this. Can you help me?DONNA THURSTONVirginia Beach, Va.A. This is actually Security Networks’ second appearance in this highly uncoveted space.Four years ago, the Haggler wrote about a couple from North Carolina who were unable to cancel their contract with the company. Since then, a pretty steady flow of unhappy Security Networks customers have been writing with their own tales, most of them about how their contracts were auto-renewed despite efforts to ditch their alarm systems.Then there are the complaint Web sites, which offer plenty of variations on this theme. The Haggler’s favorite, in the most perverse sense of the word: the couple who wound up paying two alarm companies. That happened, their posting said, after a Security Networks salesman showed up and said the company had taken over the contracts of customers with a rival system. Well, it hadn’t. A Security Networks system was installed and the couple now pay $50 a month for two companies.You see? A home alarm for home-alarm company salesmen. Inventors of America, get busy.In Ms. Thurston’s case, the Haggler showed up a little late to pull his patent-pending, Haggler-to-the-rescue move. She had succeeded in wearing down Security Networks on her own, and if you’re wondering how, it was through a complaint filed with the Southeast Florida chapter of the Better Business Bureau. On the bureau’s Web page devoted to Security Networks, you will find that the company has had 560 complaints against it in the last three years.To its credit, Security Networks engages with those complainers, though the bureau says dozens of customers come away dissatisfied with this engagement.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Ms. Thurston, on the other hand, was let out of her contract, and the company even refunded a payment that she made in December. Suffice it to say, she is still peeved by the entire experience.“They will not stop what they are doing,” she wrote last week, “just because I got them to stop harassing me.”A rep at Security Networks named Joseph Shields looked into Ms. Thurston’s situation and wrote that the company “expects its staff to be ethical at all times.” Mr. Shields added that Security Networks “takes pride in providing the highest-quality service and under no circumstances would the company condone any form of customer deception.”He also apologized for what he called a “misunderstanding.”Misunderstanding does not seem the right word for what happened to Ms. Thurston. And given that Security Networks could learn who tricked her into signing up for nearly $2,300 worth of service, you would think that Mr. Shields might have typed a few lines about how the salesman in question, employed by an authorized affiliate, is now in a Soviet-style retraining camp, where borscht is served three times a day. The Haggler imagines classes there in civility, taught in a sweat lodge by a drill sergeant. Every few weeks, the salesman signs papers that he thinks will get him released — and each time, fine print hidden on the document requires him to stay put another month. Or he can just leave and his credit score will stink forever.

E-mail: haggler@nytimes.com. Keep it brief and family-friendly, include your hometown and go easy on the caps-lock key. Letters may be edited for clarity and length.
A version of this article appears in print on July 14, 2013, on page BU3 of the New York edition with the headline: So You Thought You Canceled the Contract.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage









SHORTCUTS 

Those Wordy Contracts We All So Quickly Accept
JULY 12, 2013


























The Haggler
Helping aggrieved consumers for more than six-tenths of a decade.








                                Running the Car Rental Agreement Gantlet            
MAR 12








                                I.R.S. Calling to Demand Cash? Don’t Pay Up. Hang Up.            
FEB 27








                                A Monthly Gift That Keeps on Not Giving            
FEB 13








                                A Little Walmart Gift Card for You, a Big Payout for Lawyers            
JAN 30








                                What’s Harder Than Renting a Car? Filing a Complaint            
JAN 16






See More »








Related Coverage






SHORTCUTS 

Those Wordy Contracts We All So Quickly Accept
JULY 12, 2013













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















