
  




Some Heresy on Wall Street: Look Past the Quarter - The New York Times

































































































Older ‘DealBook’ Columns" />













 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





DealBook|Some Heresy on Wall Street: Look Past the Quarter



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1NNvajc




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement











 



Supported by




Some Heresy on Wall Street: Look Past the Quarter



 
 


 Andrew Ross Sorkin
 


DEALBOOK
FEB. 1, 2016



Inside








Photo






Laurence Fink says companies should give shareholders a detailed long-term plan for the company’s business.

Credit
            Karsten Moran for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Most money managers clamor for companies to provide detailed guidance on their next quarter, down to the penny — but not the world’s largest investor.







Laurence D. Fink, co-founder and chief executive of BlackRock, which with more than $4.6 trillion in assets under management makes it the world’s largest investor, sent a letter to 500 chief executives late Monday urging them for the first time to stop providing quarterly earnings estimates.“Today’s culture of quarterly earnings hysteria is totally contrary to the long-term approach we need,” Mr. Fink wrote.The proposal, a provocative recommendation from the influential Wall Street executive, is aimed at trying to curb companies’ short-term focus on quarterly results.




DealBook
Older ‘DealBook’ Columns







                                A Tidal Wave of Corporate Migrants Seeking (Tax) Shelter            








                                In Davos, Shunning Controversy in Favor of Restrained Debate            








                                When Restless Billionaires Trip on Their Toys            








                                A Growing Conflict in Wall St. Buyouts            








                                Captains of Industry, and Otherwise, Breaking Bread            






See More »



“To be clear, we do believe companies should still report quarterly results — long-termism should not be a substitute for transparency,” he said. “But C.E.O.s should be more focused in these reports on demonstrating progress against their strategic plans than a one-penny deviation from their E.P.S. targets or analyst consensus estimates.” (E.P.S. stands for earnings per share.)Mr. Fink has made a series of proposals over the last several years to encourage longer-term thinking by companies, including a plan to change the tax code and the treatment of capital gains. But his latest proposition goes further than his previous efforts.While Mr. Fink wants to eliminate quarterly guidance, he is also making perhaps an even more controversial request, asking chief executives and company boards to provide a “a strategic framework for long-term value creation” that could extend to multiple years. In other words, a company should give shareholders a detailed long-term plan for its business.“Annual shareholder letters and other communications to shareholders are too often backwards-looking and don’t do enough to articulate management’s vision and plans for the future,” Mr. Fink wrote. Without management providing a road map for the next few years, he said, “some short-term investors (and analysts) offer more compelling visions for companies than the companies themselves, allowing these perspectives to fill the void and build support for potentially destabilizing actions.”Activist investors are increasingly pressuring companies to return money to shareholders or buy back shares. Last year through the end of the third quarter, according to Mr. Fink, buybacks skyrocketed 27 percent over the previous year, which itself had been a record. Companies that buy back shares reduce the amount of stock they have outstanding, a move that can have the effect of increasing earnings per share and the stakes of existing shareholders.Mr. Fink’s call comes at a time of stepped-up chatter among big investors and other business leaders to try to encourage companies and investors to be less focused on short-term efforts to lift earnings. Critics of buybacks question whether the purchases are a productive use of profits, rather than investing in their businesses and creating jobs.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
BlackRock, along with other mutual fund giants like Fidelity Investments and T. Rowe Price, recently held a meeting with Warren E. Buffett at the invitation of JPMorgan Chase’s chief executive, Jamie Dimon, to devise a series of voluntary standards that companies should adopt, according to people briefed on the meetings. Another meeting is planned for next month. The discussion of short-termism on Wall Street has also become part of the presidential campaign. Hillary Clinton made a policy speech last year that endorsed many of the ideas Mr. Fink had raised. There has long been speculation that Mr. Fink could eventually land a senior government post in Washington.In an interview, Mr. Fink said he wrote this letter now to get ahead of proxy season, a period during the spring when many companies hold their annual meetings and vote on shareholder resolutions. He hopes to influence how chief executives discuss their companies’ performance and goals in their annual letters to shareholders.Of course, some companies in fast-moving businesses like technology might argue that it is impossible to present a multiyear road map without telegraphing plans to rivals.Mr. Fink dismissed that possibility. “I don’t think a public discourse on how a company’s C.E.O. sees their position is going to result in proprietary secrets being revealed.”He doesn’t want to put all of the responsibility on the chief executive. His letter presses company boards to publicly affirm the chief executive’s long-term plan. All too often, there is a disconnect between the vision of a chief executive and the board, especially when things go wrong.Of course, the other challenge with a company offering a long-term vision is not only meeting its goals, but also changing them if the market or economy change. Mr. Fink said he appreciated that argument, but contended that boards that lay out multiyear plans won’t feel locked into them.“Given the right context, long-term shareholders will understand, and even expect, that you will need to pivot in response to the changing environments you are navigating,” Mr. Fink wrote. “But one reason for investors’ short-term horizons is that companies have not sufficiently educated them about the ecosystems they are operating in.”That may be true, but it is admittedly difficult for executives to reverse course without worrying about losing face.Mr. Fink is also pushing for companies to consider environmental, social and governance issues “ranging from climate change to diversity to board effectiveness.” These issues have long been an afterthought for most companies, and in particular, for investors, who have simply sought companies that deliver the highest returns.“These issues offer both risks and opportunities, but for too long, companies have not considered them core to their business — even when the world’s political leaders are increasingly focused on them, as demonstrated by the Paris climate accord,” Mr. Fink wrote.Finally, Mr. Fink suggests that business actually needs to take on a greater responsibility in pushing for change in Washington. He says that tax policy needs to be reformed and investment in infrastructure must become a priority. If the government fails to invest in our nation’s infrastructure, it “will not only cost businesses and consumers $1.8 trillion over the next five years, but clearly represents a threat to the ability of companies to grow.”He says he believes that corporate America needs help from Washington to shift to a more long-term focus. “We recognize that the culture of short-term results is not something that can be solved by C.E.O.s and their boards alone.”





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















