
  




After Nuclear Test, South Korea Urges China to Rein In North - The New York Times























































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Asia Pacific|After Nuclear Test, South Korea Urges China to Rein In North



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Oqm6lZ




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement









Supported by



Asia Pacific 
After Nuclear Test, South Korea Urges China to Rein In North

By CHOE SANG-HUNJAN. 13, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






President Park Geun-hye of South Korea giving a televised speech on Wednesday. “China has repeatedly said publicly that it would not tolerate North Korea’s nuclear weapons,” she said.

Credit
            Pool photo by Jeon Heon-Kyun        


SEOUL, South Korea —  A week after North Korea conducted its fourth nuclear test, President Park Geun-hye of South Korea urged China on Wednesday to do more to rein in the North, amid growing criticism that Ms. Park’s policy of building stronger ties with Beijing was not showing results.“China has repeatedly said publicly that it would not tolerate North Korea’s nuclear weapons,” Ms. Park said in a nationally televised speech. “I think China is fully aware that if such strong will is not matched by necessary measures, we cannot prevent fifth and sixth nuclear tests by the North or guarantee real peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula.”China joined much of the world in condemning the nuclear test last week. On Wednesday, a senior United States negotiator repeated Washington’s call for China to put more pressure on North Korea, using the leverage it has as the impoverished country’s sole major ally and leading trade partner.“I hope the Chinese authorities agree with us that we simply cannot take a business-as-usual approach to this latest provocation,” said Sung Kim, the special American representative for North Korea policy, after meeting his South Korean and Japanese counterparts in Seoul to discuss sanctions. “I think the Chinese will agree with us that the only way to send a clear message to Pyongyang is to adopt strong international measures.”North Korea said its test was of a hydrogen bomb, a far more powerful weapon than the nuclear devices it has tested before, but that claim has been greeted with widespread skepticism. Still, the test has underlined South Korea’s geopolitical challenges and exposed Ms. Park’s China policy to more scrutiny at home.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

In recent days, some lawmakers in Ms. Park’s party have said that South Korea must consider developing nuclear arms itself, contending that neither China nor the United States was able or willing to stop the North’s weapons program.Ms. Park said Wednesday that she understood that point of view but that South Korea remained committed to nuclear nonproliferation. She said the United Nations Security Council needed to adopt a new round of sanctions “strong enough to change North Korea’s attitude.” 








                    OPEN Graphic                



            Graphic: Why Experts Doubt That North Korea Tested a Hydrogen Bomb        


“China’s role is important in the process,” she said.Since taking office in early 2013, Ms. Park has worked to build closer ties with Beijing, meeting with President Xi Jinping more often than with any other foreign leader. China is by far South Korea’s largest trading partner, and policy makers in Seoul said a closer relationship would make China more receptive to appeals to put more pressure on the North.A signature moment for that strategy came in the fall, when Ms. Park stood beside Mr. Xi on a podium in Beijing watching a huge military parade — the only leader of a significant American ally to attend Chinese ceremonies for the 70th anniversary of World War II’s end. Detractors in South Korea said she was endangering the country’s alliance with Washington, but aides to Ms. Park said it was to South Korea’s advantage to be friendly with both powers.Yet since the North’s latest nuclear test, even some South Korean newspapers generally supportive of the conservative president have argued in editorials that the courtship had done little to tame North Korea.South Korean officials have described top Chinese leaders as largely unresponsive to attempts to discuss North Korea in recent days. China and South Korea established a military hotline last year with much fanfare, but the South Korean defense minister has been unable to get his Chinese counterpart on the line, according to the Defense Ministry.Ms. Park has tried and failed to arrange a telephone conversation with Mr. Xi since the nuclear test; she spoke with President Obama and Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, soon after the test. South Korea’s foreign minister, Yun Byung-se, spoke with his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, for 70 minutes on Friday, seeking China’s support for “resolute sanctions,” but Mr. Wang stuck to Beijing’s longstanding insistence that denuclearization and stability in Korea must be achieved only through “dialogue,” South Korean officials said.  China has also indirectly criticized South Korean and American responses to the test: Seoul’s resumption of propaganda broadcasts at the inter-Korean border and a flyover near North Korea by an American nuclear-capable B-52 long-range bomber, which the Americans described as a show of strength. China called for “calm” and “prudence.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

A report released in Washington on Wednesday said that key facilities at North Korea’s main nuclear complex, in Yongbyon, appeared to be in operation, indicating Pyongyang was continuing to stockpile bomb fuels.In the report, David Albright and Serena Kelleher-Vergantini at the Institute for Science and International Security said they had found what appeared to be steam emissions from the turbine building of an old Soviet-style nuclear reactor that had been mothballed.

Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day with the Today’s Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.
A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 2016, on page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: After Nuclear Test, South Korea Urges China to Rein In North.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










China Arrests Rights Lawyer and Her Husband on Subversion Charges
JAN. 13, 2016









Professor Ordered to Pay 9 Who Said ‘Comfort Women’ Book Defamed Them
JAN. 13, 2016













North Korea Faked Test Video, Group Says
JAN. 12, 2016









Man Claiming to Be American Tells CNN He’s Detained in North Korea
JAN. 11, 2016












Opinion                         Opinion


How ‘Crazy’ Are the North Koreans?
JAN. 9, 2016
























Related Coverage







China Arrests Rights Lawyer and Her Husband on Subversion Charges
JAN. 13, 2016













Professor Ordered to Pay 9 Who Said ‘Comfort Women’ Book Defamed Them
JAN. 13, 2016









North Korea Faked Test Video, Group Says
JAN. 12, 2016















Man Claiming to Be American Tells CNN He’s Detained in North Korea
JAN. 11, 2016








Opinion                         Opinion


How ‘Crazy’ Are the North Koreans?
JAN. 9, 2016













North Korea’s Hydrogen Bomb Claim Strains Ties With China
JAN. 6, 2016













Security Council Condemns Nuclear Test by North Korea
JAN. 6, 2016












Show All





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















