
  




Spend the Money for the Good Boots, and Wear Them Forever - The New York Times
































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Your Money|Spend the Money for the Good Boots, and Wear Them Forever



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Q7oMVP




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Your Money |                        Sketch Guy                                    
Spend the Money for the Good Boots, and Wear Them Forever

By CARL RICHARDSFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo







Credit
            Carl Richards        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



I like buying high-quality things. And for the longest time, I’ve had this sneaking suspicion that buying high-quality stuff, which perhaps initially was more expensive, actually saved me money in the long run. It wasn’t until very recently, though, that I noticed a strong argument in support of my hunch.







The other day, I was researching this idea, trying to understand why I choose to buy nice things, and I came across a quote from Terry Pratchett in “Men At Arms,” part of the Discworld series. In the book, Sam Vimes, a police officer from the fictional city-state of Ankh-Morpork, gives us a very compelling financial reason for buying higher-quality, rather than cheaper, things:The reason that the rich were so rich, Vimes reasoned, was because they managed to spend less money.
Take boots, for example. He earned $38 a month plus allowances. A really good pair of leather boots cost $50. But an affordable pair of boots, which were sort of O.K. for a season or two and then leaked like hell when the cardboard gave out, cost about $10. Those were the kind of boots Vimes always bought, and wore until the soles were so thin that he could tell where he was in Ankh-Morpork on a foggy night by the feel of the cobbles.
But the thing was that good boots lasted for years and years. A man who could afford $50 had a pair of boots that’d still be keeping his feet dry in 10 years’ time, while the poor man who could only afford cheap boots would have spent a hundred dollars on boots in the same time and would still have wet feet.
This was the Captain Samuel Vimes “Boots” theory of socioeconomic unfairness.Now this, I thought, was awesome. Paradoxically, you can actually spend less by spending more. I also realized that I’ve had many experiences with this phenomenon before.Seventeen years ago, my wife and I had been married for three years, and we were living like poor college students. She was working as a ski instructor, and I was going to school full time. We had just had our first child. We didn’t have a lot of extra money, but we loved to ski, and we needed new ski pants.
Continue reading the main story


            And You Should Buy the $80 Flip-Flops Too        

            Listen to the Sketch Guy’s Advice about Money and Your Life        









Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Sketch Guy: The Financial Benefits of Buying What You LoveDEC. 21, 2015











Sketch Guy: During Market Turmoil, Just Listen to Your Financial PlanJAN. 25, 2016











Sketch Guy: Dress the Part, and It’s Easier to Walk the WalkDEC. 7, 2015











Sketch Guy: Getting Comfortable With ChangeNOV. 23, 2015







I had my eye on this pair of ski bibs from a high-end company called Moonstone. At the time, Moonstone was making some of the best ski gear that money could buy, but these bibs were expensive. I don’t remember exactly how much, maybe just over $300. I knew that according to conventional wisdom, I should have been buying the cheap pants at Walmart instead.Without even knowing about Sam Vimes, I had this gut feeling that I should buy the Moonstone pants. So we saved and saved and saved, and finally, I bought them.And I still have them. A full 17 years later.Whenever I go skiing, that’s what I wear. And guess what? They still work. Just as good as the day I bought them. And I can almost guarantee you, if I had bought the $50 pants from Walmart, they would have been gone before the end of the first season.I would have had to buy those $50 pants at least 17 more times over the years, spending more than $800, to get as much use out of them as I have from my Moonstone pants. Not only would I have had the cognitive, emotional and logistical drain of perpetually having to replace the old pants, as I’ve alluded to in a previous column, but I would have spent more than twice as much money in the long run.For those of you who are nodding along knowingly, now you have a neat framework to evaluate your purchases. And for those of you who have been buying the cheap pants for years, consider this an invitation to throw them away for the last time, and to start saving money by buying better pants once.


Carl Richards is a financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the director of investor education at the BAM Alliance. His latest book is “The One-Page Financial Plan: A Simple Way to Be Smart About Your Money.” Hundreds of his sketches about investing, money and behavior are archived on the “Your Money” page.
Make the most of your money. Every Monday get articles about retirement, saving for college, investing, new online financial services and much more. Sign up for the Your Money newsletter here.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















