



Still in Critical Condition, Nixon Has Swelling in Brain - NYTimes.com






























































.NYT5Style .masthead-tools #bar1-button  {
    display: inline;
    vertical-align: top;
}
#bar1-button {
    border:none;
    position: relative;
}
.bar1_hover {
    opacity: 0;
}
.sub_small_hide {
    display: none;
}
#bar1-button > a {
    -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
    background-color: #6288A5;
    border: 1px solid #4D7B9F;
    border-radius: 3px;
    color: #fff !important;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 1em;
    font-weight: bold;
    font-family: nyt-franklin,nyt-franklin-1,'Helvetica Neue',Arial,sans-serif;
    padding: 7px 10px 6px;
    text-transform: uppercase;
    text-decoration: none;
}
#bar1-button > a:hover {
    background-color: #326891;
    border: 1px solid #265E8B;
    text-decoration: none;
}

/* EXCLUDING NYT4 INTERACTIVES */
#interactiveABC #bar1-button {
   display: none;
}


Subscribe Now


Subscribe

campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global


NYTD.loadEditionToggle();

window.setTimeout(function() {
  var login = document.getElementById('memberToolsLogin');
  if (login) {
    login.href += "?URI=" + window.location.href;
  }
}, 0)







Search All NYTimes.com










U.S.





World
 
U.S.
PoliticsEducationTexas 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








Still in Critical Condition, Nixon Has Swelling in Brain


By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN


Published: April 21, 1994









                    In the second full day after suffering a paralyzing stroke on Monday, former President Richard M. Nixon remained in critical condition last evening, with swelling in his brain continuing to threaten his life, officials of the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center said.        

                    The swelling, a potentially fatal complication of a stroke, results when damaged arteries begin to break down and fluid leaks into the brain tissue. This leakage further damages cells that have already been harmed by lack of oxygen when the stroke occurred. The amount of swelling, or cerebral edema, is generally directly related to the seriousness of the stroke.        

                    Mr. Nixon, 81, was described as having suffered "a big stroke" by a health worker who is involved in his care but would not allow his name to be used. The stroke paralyzed Mr. Nixon's right arm and leg, impaired his speech and caused some loss of vision.        

                    Mr. Nixon's doctors believe his stroke resulted from a blood clot that formed in his heart and then traveled through the blood stream to lodge in the middle cerebral artery in the brain, cutting off the usual supply of oxygen and nutrients to the cells served by that blood vessel. 'Touch and Go'        

                    The former President's condition is "touch and go," the health worker said yesterday.        

                    Late yesterday afternoon, the hospital issued a statement saying that Mr. Nixon was being treated in an intensive-care unit and that there would be no further updates unless his condition changed.        

                    In a news conference late yesterday, President Clinton said he and Mrs. Clinton were praying for Mr. Nixon's recovery, adding that Mr. Nixon had offered him "wise counsel" on Russia and other matters in the last 15 months.        

                    Among the get-well messages that poured in to the hospital from around the world was one from President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia, who wrote, "I hope you recover and return to the rough and tumble of political life."        

                    With the end of the cold war, Mr. Nixon made it his personal mission to win United States support and financial assistance for Russia. But Mr. Yeltsin expressed irritation with him when Mr. Nixon met with Mr. Yeltsin's opponents in a visit to Russia last month.        

                    Although Mr. Nixon's doctors said medical workers were able to rouse the former President yesterday morning, by afternoon he was described as drowsy. He had been reported to be agitated earlier in the day and was given a drug belonging to the benzodiazepine class,the health care worker said, adding that the drug may have contributed to Mr. Nixon's lethargy. Options for Treatment        

                    Last evening, 48 hours after his stroke, Mr. Nixon was entering the peak period for brain swelling. That period is usually 48 to 72 hours after a stroke and continues up to 96 hours, after which the swelling usually starts to subside.        

                    Doctors often inject the drug mannitol to help reduce the swelling by removing fluid through osmosis. It was unclear whether Mr. Nixon was receiving that drug.        

                    Doctors may also try to reduce the swelling by making a patient breath faster with the aid of a mechanical respirator. But Mr. Nixon has not been put on a respirator, out of deference to his explicit wishes, the health worker said. He added that Mr. Nixon had in the past expressed "some fairly strong intentions about the kind of treatment he wishes."        

                    Brain swelling is a major cause of death in strokes, because the skull prevents expansion and results in compression on the brain stem, where such vital functions as breathing and heart beat are controlled.  Even if therapy relieves the brain swelling, it is uncertain how much permanent damage there may be. Thus the next couple of days will be crucial in Mr. Nixon's case. But doctors not involved in the case said that from what is known from the public record it was unlikely that Mr. Nixon would be restored to his state of health on Monday morning. Irregular Heart Rhythms        

                    Mr. Nixon suffered the stroke late Monday afternoon at his home in Park Ridge, N.J. Doctors familiar with the case say his stroke was probably a complication of chronic heart disease from atherosclerosis, which caused his heart to beat irregularly in a rhythm.        

                    Patients with the heart rhythm problem, atrial fibrillation, are predisposed to the formation of blood clots in the upper chamber.        

                    Mr. Nixon has had atrial fibrillation for many years, the health worker said, and he took an anticoagulant drug, coumadin, to reduce the risk of a stroke.        

                    After the former President arrived at New York Hospital, doctors prescribed injections of a second kind of anticoagulant, heparin, as a booster. A CAT scan X-ray of Mr. Nixon's brain taken about 9:30 Monday night showed no evidence of damage to his brain.        

                    Tuesday afternoon, in accordance with Mr. Nixon's desire for privacy, doctors said, he was moved to a private room after they determined he was well enough to be released from the intensive-care unit. But about two hours later, Mr. Nixon took a turn for the worse, and a second CAT scan taken about 24 hours after the first one showed that the stroke was involving most of the area nourished by the middle cerebral artery. Mr. Nixon then returned to the intensive-care unit. Looking at Ambulance Time        

                    Mr. Nixon's doctors do not believe that the move to a private room jeopardized his care, the health worker said. They also do not believe that his health was jeopardized by the time it took for the ambulance to take him to New York Hospital, where he has received medical care for many years, rather than to a hospital nearer home.        

                    Recent studies have suggested that rapid treatment of stroke may prevent some brain damage. Researchers are trying to develop new therapies and to deliver them within the first few hours after a stroke, much as is now standard practice for heart attacks.        

                    Several clinical trials are in progress at medical centers, and Mr. Nixon was said to have been offered a chance to enter one at New York Hospital. But the health worker said Mr. Nixon's doctors decided against the option because of concern about his heart.        

                    Diagram: "NIXON'S STROKE: What Happened"    A blood clot swept from the heart into the middle cerebral artery is believed to have caused the stroke, depriving a central area of the brain of oxygen and vital nutrients. Resulting damage led to brain swelling.        








 














 



















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback







var dcsvid = "";
var regstatus = "non-registered";





campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Inv1
