
  




Storage of Records of Background Checks Shifted After Last Year’s Security Breach  - The New York Times
















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|Storage of Records of Background Checks Shifted After Last Year’s Security Breach 



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Tehepw




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
Storage of Records of Background Checks Shifted After Last Year’s Security Breach 

By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVISJAN. 22, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON —  The Obama administration on Friday said that the Defense Department would take over the storage of records from federal background checks, part of an overhaul prompted by a colossal cybersecurity breach at the Office of Personnel Management.That intrusion, which compromised the personal information of more than 20 million people, embarrassed President Obama and raised troubling questions about his administration’s ability to counter mounting cyberthreats.A major component of the overhaul will be the creation of a new agency that will process federal background checks. That agency, called the National Background Investigations Bureau, will be part of the personnel office but will be led by a presidential appointee.Mr. Obama will request $95 million in his budget for 2017 to carry out the upgrades, the administration said. The budget will be submitted to Congress within weeks.A senior administration official said that people undergoing background checks may not see many changes; investigators will still interview co-workers, friends and family members of anyone seeking a clearance.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

But the information gathered will no longer be stored in the personnel office’s systems. Most will be stored in the Internet “cloud,” in systems designed and run by the Defense Department.“They have learned a lot at Defense, and we want to exploit that experience,” the official said.The Defense Department has had its own troubles with cybersecurity, including the release of hundreds of thousands of documents to WikiLeaks in 2010 by Pvt. Chelsea Manning, formerly Bradley Manning. The department has since invested heavily to protect its networks.The overhaul of the background check system is the latest fallout from the hacking episode at the personnel agency, which forced a leadership shake-up and a broad review of how the government investigates prospective employees and contractors. The personnel agency conducts about 95 percent of those investigations, including more than 600,000 security clearance checks and 400,000 “suitability” investigations each year.“This is primarily about recognizing the evolving threats and national security importance of the background investigation systems and data,” said Samuel J. Schumach, the personnel agency’s press secretary. He said that Defense Department investigations accounted for more than 70 percent of the background checks, so it made sense for its experts to take over the storage system.“Utilizing what D.O.D. can provide — a large and trained cybersecurity work force to protect against and respond to cyberintrusions, and a strong focus on national security — is the right step to take,” Mr. Schumach said.In the breach at the personnel agency, about 22 million records were stolen by the intruders — widely believed to be Chinese, though the administration has avoided publicly naming the Chinese government as the offender. The records include Social Security numbers; medical and financial histories; the names of friends, family members and people from past relationships; and, in more than six million files, complete fingerprints.The attackers lurked undetected in the system for more than a year. Only when long-delayed system upgrades began did the scope of the theft become clear, or the stealth with which the data was shipped out of the databases, some of which were located in the Interior Department.The overhaul was announced without fanfare on a quiet day in Washington, an hour before federal offices closed to prepare for a huge snowstorm. Mr. Obama had no public schedule on Friday, and the daily White House briefing was canceled because of the weather.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

It was not clear how quickly the changes would take effect. White House officials said that they “will take time to fully implement,” and that a transition team would manage the formation of the new office. It will absorb the existing entity responsible for background checks, known as Federal Investigative Services.The new office will have “a senior privacy official to advance privacy by design,” referring to the concept of building security measures into products from their inception, rather than after a devastating breach.“We are committed to protecting the security of not only our systems and data, but also the personally identifiable information of the people we entrust with protecting our national security,” administration officials who conducted the review of the background check system wrote in a blog post announcing the overhaul. Among the officials who signed the post were James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, and Beth Cobert, the personnel office’s acting director.Since the revelations last year of the data theft, the personnel agency has rushed to bolster the security of its information. Mr. Schumach said it had moved to put in place “real-time monitoring” of its computer systems, installed controls to bar unknown devices from logging on to its network, and enforced “two-factor authentication” for gaining access to the network — a basic measure that had been lacking on many government systems.

David Sanger contributed reporting.
Follow the New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on January 23, 2016, on page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: Storage of Records of Background Checks Shifted After Last Year’s Security Breach .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










Hacking of Government Computers Exposed 21.5 Million People
JULY 9, 2015













Hackers Took Fingerprints of 5.6 Million U.S. Workers, Government Says
SEPT. 23, 2015









China Calls Hacking of U.S. Workers’ Data a Crime, Not a State Act
DEC. 2, 2015













Target and PayPal Sites Report Problems on Cyber Monday
NOV. 30, 2015













Iranian Hackers Attack State Dept. via Social Media Accounts
NOV. 24, 2015
























Related Coverage







Hacking of Government Computers Exposed 21.5 Million People
JULY 9, 2015













Hackers Took Fingerprints of 5.6 Million U.S. Workers, Government Says
SEPT. 23, 2015













China Calls Hacking of U.S. Workers’ Data a Crime, Not a State Act
DEC. 2, 2015











Target and PayPal Sites Report Problems on Cyber Monday
NOV. 30, 2015













Iranian Hackers Attack State Dept. via Social Media Accounts
NOV. 24, 2015













Senate Approves a Cybersecurity Bill Long in the Works and Largely Dated
OCT. 27, 2015








FIRST DRAFT 

Cybersecurity Looms as Obstacle for Nominee to Lead the Office of Personnel Management
NOV. 11, 2015












Show All





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















