



THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ -  SECURITY -  For Iraqi Police Officers, a Growing Task With Ever Greater Risk - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










World





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: SECURITY
THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: SECURITY; For Iraqi Police Officers, a Growing Task With Ever Greater Risk


By ALEX BERENSON


Published: November 9, 2003









BAGHDAD, Iraq, Nov. 8— 
                    In an empty office in a bombed-out station, the lieutenant colonel in the local police force was explaining the miseries his officers face.        

                    Two weeks ago, a car bomb blew up the police station, killing at least 13 people. One police officer lost a leg and could lose the other; he does not know how he will pay for his care.        

                    ''We don't have weapons,'' said Muhammad Hashem Rahma, the lieutenant colonel at this station here in the Khudra neighborhood in western Baghdad. ''We don't have flak jackets. We don't have good cars. And we are face to face with death, because everybody thinks we are supporting the Americans.'' He said he himself had received a death threat three days after the bombing.        

                    Then a rocket-propelled grenade exploded 200 yards away and Colonel Rahma ran to investigate, ending the interview.        

                    The police are the core of the American plan to restore civil society in Iraq, but they are staggering, and not only at this station and the two others hit by devastating bombs on Oct. 27.        

                    The Americans, who are promising to increase the number of officers, are leaning on the police and other Iraqi security forces to help them root out the guerrillas plaguing the 150,000 international troops in Iraq. But while the demands on the police have grown, their resources have not kept pace.        

                    Easy Targets        

                    Accustomed to dealing with common criminals, the police now face terrorists who see them as easy targets. Officers have no bulletproof vests; their pay arrives late; and even though the occupying authorities have raised their salaries, officers say they still cannot make ends meet.        

                    They chafe under new American rules of evidence, and with only about 40,000 officers, many of whom are corrupt holdovers from the Saddam Hussein era, the force is badly understaffed for a nation of 25 million people.        

                    ''I need new police,'' said Gen. Ahmed Ibrahim, national commander of the force. ''Not police from the Baath Party,'' he added, referring to the party of Mr. Hussein's government. ''Many police right now are from the Baath Party.'' But no new officers are currently in training, General Ibrahim said.        

                    Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld has promised to increase the number of Iraqis serving in the nation's security forces to more than 200,000 within a year.        

                    He said last week that 118,000 Iraqis were now serving in the security forces, though Iraqi officials say the number is lower. Besides the police, the forces include tens of thousands of poorly trained security guards who watch hospitals and other buildings, as well as 700 soldiers in the new Iraqi Army and other minor forces.        

                    The United States-led occupying authority is working to ease the pressures the police face, said Charles Heatly, a spokesman for the authority.        

                    ''The coalition and the Interior Ministry are fully committed to improve training and support for the police as soon as possible,'' Mr. Heatly said. For example, 50,000 flak jackets have been ordered and are scheduled to begin arriving this month.        

                    Many officers are doing heroic work under difficult circumstances, he said, but a modern police force cannot be created overnight.        

                    ''They need more training, equipment, management, and direction, and this will take time,'' he said.        

                    Colonel Rahma and other officers say they are willing to work, even at great risk. But in Khudra, a neighborhood of 120,000 people, the burdens seem overwhelming. Since the car bomb, the police here have stopped patrolling. Most officers spend their days sitting outside the station, on a street still strewn with twisted cars and shattered glass.        

                    The American military police who worked with the Iraqi officers at the station before the bombing have disappeared, moving on to stations that are still functioning.        

                    At 9 a.m. on Monday, Oct. 27, the first day of Ramadan, which is the holiest month of the Muslim calendar, Razzaq Rashid Abbas, a 31-year police veteran, was standing at his usual post outside the front door of the Khudra station. A Toyota Land Cruiser raced by, then tried to break through concrete barriers into a parking lot behind the station. The barriers blocked the Land Cruiser, and the driver jumped out.        

                    ''When he opened his door, I say, 'God bless us, maybe he will make an explosion,''' Mr. Abbas said from his bed at Baghdad's main teaching hospital. ''There was a huge fireball.''        

                    The blast left a crater seven feet deep outside the station, destroying virtually any evidence that the vehicle carrying it had ever existed. Mr. Abbas passed out.        

                    Hospital Bills Pile Up        

                    When he came to, he found that the explosion had severed his left leg and torn out his intestines. Doctors at nearby Yarmuk Hospital stabilized him and transferred him to the teaching hospital. For the last 10 days, surgeons have been trying to save his right leg, which was shattered in the blast.        

                    Mr. Abbas and his family are nervously adding up the bills that come each day to his bedside. Each night in the hospital costs 5,000 Iraqi dinars ($2.50). Food is 1,000 dinars (50 cents) a day. Ampules of pethidine, a painkiller, are a crushing 25,000 dinars ($12.50) each.        

                    Saad Abd Zaid, Mr. Abbas's uncle, estimates that the hospitalization will cost at least 625,000 dinars, or about $300. That is far more money than Mr. Abbas or his family have.        

                    ''I must borrow some money,'' Mr. Abbas said. ''And later, I don't know how I'm going to pay it back.''        

                    Mr. Zaid said the family might be forced to sell its house. ''Even if we have to sell our clothes, what can we do?'' he asked.        







1

2


Next Page >




 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/world, position: Inv1
