
  




Study Finds Growing Reason to Be Wary of Some Reflux Drugs - The New York Times













































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Health|Study Finds Growing Reason to Be Wary of Some Reflux Drugs



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1m1Vwrf




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Health 
Study Finds Growing Reason to Be Wary of Some Reflux Drugs







Paula Span



 THE NEW OLD AGE
JAN. 29, 2016



Inside










Photo







Credit
            Joyce Hesselberth        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Maybe you have seen television ads starring the beefy, affable comedian and actor known as Larry the Cable Guy.







In his sleeveless shirt and gimme cap, he’s driving a monster truck or streaking along on a jet ski, pausing to chomp on a turkey drumstick or a barbecued rib, all the while proclaiming his love for America and for Prilosec OTC to fight “frequent heartburn.”The caution that the drug should be taken for no more than 14 days, and not more often than every four months, appears briefly on-screen. If you blink or go fetch your glasses, you’ll miss it.Todd Semla has noticed the ads, too, and he’s not a fan. “I don’t see Larry the Cable Guy saying, ‘If you take this drug often, your kidneys may be affected or you could break a hip,’” said Dr. Semla, a pharmacist at the Feinberg School of Medicine at Northwestern University, and past president of the American Geriatrics Society. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Ask Well: Taking Heartburn Drugs Long-Term 






The Consumer: Combating Acid Reflux May Bring Host of Ills 










Well: Heartburn Drugs Linked to Heart Attacks 










Well: Heartburn Drugs Tied to Kidney Problems 






Vital Signs: A Further Link Between Proton Pump Inhibitors and Fractures 






Since their introduction in 1990, the drugs collectively known as proton pump inhibitors (common brand names: Nexium, Prevacid, Prilosec) have become among the most frequently prescribed in the country; as the Cable Guy points out, they are also available over the counter. They suppress stomach acid more effectively than a previous class of drugs called H2 blockers (Zantac, Tagamet, Pepcid).They have also given users reason to be wary. In recent years, scores of studies have reported associations between prescription P.P.I. use and an array of health problems, including bone fractures, low magnesium levels, kidney injuries and possibly cardiovascular drug interactions.They are also linked to infections, like the stubborn Clostridium difficile and pneumonia. Reducing the acidity of the stomach, researchers believe, allows bacteria to thrive and then spread to other organs like the lungs and intestines.The latest findings, published in JAMA Internal Medicine, point to increased risk of chronic kidney disease among users, which is particularly worrisome.“You can treat and hopefully cure infections,” said Dr. Adam Schoenfeld, an internal medicine resident at the University of California, San Francisco, and an author of an accompanying editorial on the drugs’ adverse effects. “Fractures can heal, though they can be catastrophic events for older people. But chronic kidney disease doesn’t go away.”







 The New Old Age
Paula Span explores the unprecedented challenges posed by a rapidly aging population.







                                F.T.C.’s Lumosity Penalty Doesn’t End Brain Training Debate            








                                A Twist on Caring for a Parent: Move Into the Home            








                                A Prescription for Confusion: When to Take All Those Pills            








                                Caregivers Sometimes Must Sacrifice Their Careers            








                                A Quiet End to the ‘Death Panels’ Debate            






See More »



The new study, by a Johns Hopkins team, compiled years of data from two sources: a community sample of 10,482 adults in four communities in North Carolina, Mississippi, Minnesota and Maryland (average age: 63) and a cohort of nearly 250,000 patients in a rural Pennsylvania health care system. Those who took prescription proton pump inhibitors were 20 percent to 50 percent more likely to develop chronic kidney disease than nonusers, said the senior author, Dr. Morgan Grams, a nephrologist and epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins.Like the rest of these drug studies, this one demonstrated an association, not a direct cause. But in the Pennsylvania sample, the researchers documented a dose effect: The risk of chronic kidney disease rose 15 percent among those taking the drug once a day, but 46 percent in those taking it twice daily, compared with nonusers. “That leads us to believe there’s a causal effect,” Dr. Grams said.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Relative risk statistics sometimes seem to exaggerate the dangers of a drug or an illness, if they were low to begin with. But “kidney disease is quite common, particularly among older adults,” Dr. Grams pointed out. And the P.P.I.-using population is vast, she added. “When you have 15 million people using these drugs, even relatively rare adverse effects can affect a lot of people.”Older people should probably pay special heed. They are more likely to have reflux, Dr. Semla said, in part because the muscle that prevents stomach acid from rising into the esophagus weakens with age. Older adults are therefore more likely to take these drugs, and also more vulnerable to the diseases and disorders associated with them, especially with long-term use.All of this led an American Geriatrics Society panel last year to add proton pump inhibitors to the list called the Beers Criteria for Potentially Inappropriate Medication Use in Older Adults, citing the risk of bone loss and fractures and C. diff infection.

The Food and Drug Administration has also issued several safety announcements about these drugs’ association with C. diff, fracture risk and low magnesium, linked to kidney disease and other ailments.So you’d think use of proton pump inhibitors would be declining. It’s not.“Despite this information, those drugs are extremely overprescribed,” Dr. Schoenfeld said.

From 1999 to 2002, 9 percent of people ages 55 to 64 reported using a prescription gastric reflux drug (including non-P.P.I.s) in the previous 30 days, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has reported.Ten years later, the proportion had risen to 16 percent. Among prescription medications, only cardiac and cholesterol drugs were more commonly used by adults ages 55 to 64.

Proton pump inhibitors can be crucial medications, doctors hasten to point out, for those with peptic ulcers or for intensive care patients, among others. They’re also the most effective option for severe reflux. But whether over the counter or prescribed (prescriptions can involve higher doses), they are usually recommended for short-term use.Yet “there are definitely older people who’ve been on these for 10 or 20 years,” Dr. Schoenfeld said. Perhaps the medication was prescribed during a hospital stay, then never discontinued. Or a patient took a nonprescription version for a bout of indigestion, felt better and therefore kept taking it, though the initial problem may have long ago disappeared. Doctors, too, often fail to question extended use, Dr. Schoenfeld said.Regularly reviewing all medications, prescription and over the counter, at office visits might help reduce this overuse. Dr. Schoenfeld recommends tapering off a proton pump inhibitor to see if it’s still needed, or switching to one of the less potent H2 blockers, which don’t appear to entail the same risks.Better yet, nonpharmacological approaches can often reduce heartburn and other reflux-related problems. Losing weight helps; so does limiting certain medications, like aspirin. Dr. Semla suggests raising the head of your bed so stomach acid has a harder time climbing.

Moreover, “if people eat a lot of fatty, greasy foods or drink a lot of alcohol or caffeine, those are all triggers for heartburn,” Dr. Schoenfeld said. It probably also helps — “people are going to hate me” — to cut back on chocolate.“With time or with dietary changes,” he said, “a lot of these symptoms would go away on their own.”Listen up, Cable Guy.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















