
  




Symantec Takes Investment and Will Return Cash to Investors - The New York Times






































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





DealBook|Symantec Takes Investment and Will Return Cash to Investors



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/20czcJ0




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement











 



Supported by




Symantec Takes Investment and Will Return Cash to Investors

By MICHAEL J. de la MERCEDFEB. 4, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Security researchers Eric Chien, left, and Vikram Thakur at Symantec, in Culver City, Calif., in 2012.

Credit
            Michal Czerwonka for The New York Times        


SAN FRANCISCO —  Fresh off finally completing the sale of a major division to a private equity firm, Symantec is moving forward — with the help of another big financial investor.Symantec announced Thursday that it had taken a $500 million investment from the investment firm Silver Lake Partners, as the company moves to focus on its core security software and services.The company also disclosed that it would use both the proceeds from the Silver Lake investment and the cash that it received from selling its Veritas data storage unit for $7.4 billion to return money to shareholders. That will include both share buybacks and a special dividend of $4 a share.Bringing in Silver Lake, which will gain a seat on Symantec’s board, is meant to help support the company as it focuses on its historical strength in security offerings. That effort will include both building out its software and services products and trimming some $400 million in costs.The investment — known as a private investment in public equity, or PIPE — is the latest by Silver Lake, one of the most prominent technology-focused investment firms. Silver Lake has struck similar deals with Avago, a chip maker that recently merged with Broadcom, and with Motorola Solutions.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“It’s a significant capital investment for us,” Michael A. Brown, Symantec’s chief executive, said in a telephone interview. “We welcome all interested shareholders, but especially ones who bring in additional expertise.”Under the terms of the deal, Silver Lake will buy $500 million worth of convertible debt that carries a 2.5 percent coupon and can be exchanged for equity at $21 a share. That is about 10 percent higher than Symantec’s stock price as of late Thursday afternoon.In after-hours trading, shares of Symantec surged.Ken Hao, the Silver Lake managing partner who led the investment, is also joining Symantec’s board.Both Symantec and Silver Lake have known each other for some time, with the private equity firm having approached Symantec over the years with offers to become partners.As Symantec moved to sell its Veritas unit to focus on security — the division was eventually sold to the Carlyle Group — Silver Lake raised the possibility of a PIPE. A deal came about after several weeks of talks, according to Mr. Brown.“Symantec has become now a pure-play security software and services company,” Mr. Hao said in an interview. “This is one of the most important markets in the world. We have an opportunity to partner with management and the board and participate in the transformation of the company.”Such an investment, at least to Symantec, validates the company’s belief that it is a leader in security, a field that has only grown in prominence as hackers escalate their attacks.“We have the largest footprint and scale of any vendor,” Mr. Brown said. “We have more information about the threat landscape than anyone else in the industry.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Silver Lake’s history of PIPEs shows that the firm has used such deals to support deal-making by the companies in which it has invested. The firm supported Avago as it gobbled up other chip makers, culminating in the company’s $37 billion deal for Broadcom last spring.The firm considers future acquisitions as a possibility for Symantec, according to people briefed on the firm’s thinking.But at least for now, Symantec is focused on both returning money to its shareholders and on trimming costs.“We do not view ourselves as a roll-up opportunity,” Mr. Brown said. “We’re interested in being a lot more focused.”

A version of this article appears in print on February 5, 2016, on page B4 of the New York edition with the headline: Symantec Takes a $500 Million Investment and Will Return Cash to Stockholders.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










As Investors Shun Debt, Banks Are Left Holding the Bag
NOV. 19, 2015









Carlyle Group and Other Investors to Acquire Veritas Technologies for $8 Billion
AUG. 11, 2015












DEALBOOK 

Symantec, Latest to Split, Will Divide Into Security and Information Companies
OCT. 9, 2014












DEALBOOK 

Activists Seen as Possibly Circling Symantec
APRIL 4, 2014
























Related Coverage







As Investors Shun Debt, Banks Are Left Holding the Bag
NOV. 19, 2015













Carlyle Group and Other Investors to Acquire Veritas Technologies for $8 Billion
AUG. 11, 2015








DEALBOOK 

Symantec, Latest to Split, Will Divide Into Security and Information Companies
OCT. 9, 2014












DEALBOOK 

Activists Seen as Possibly Circling Symantec
APRIL 4, 2014













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















