
  




Syria Talks Take Tentative Step Forward Despite New Attacks - The New York Times











































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Middle East|Syria Talks Take Tentative Step Forward Despite New Attacks



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/23Ekm2H




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Middle East 
Syria Talks Take Tentative Step Forward Despite New Attacks

By SOMINI SENGUPTA and ANNE BARNARDFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






Staffan de Mistura, second from left, the United Nations mediator in the Syria war, sat opposite Syria’s main opposition group during peace talks on Monday in Geneva.

Credit
            Fabrice Coffrini/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



GENEVA — The United Nations mediator in the Syrian war met for two hours on Monday in Geneva with members of the opposition, declared that negotiations had begun and said his most urgent objective was to keep both sides talking.







In remarks to reporters after the session with opposition representatives, the mediator, Staffan de Mistura, said the current round of talks “needs to be different” from the previous failed negotiations to end the conflict, which began nearly five years ago.The talks in Geneva are the first attempt in two years to hold negotiations to end a war that has left more than a quarter-million people dead, displaced millions and drawn regional and global military powers into the conflict, most notably Russia and the United States.Mr. de Mistura met with government representatives on Friday and said he would meet with them again on Tuesday morning, followed by a separate meeting with the opposition. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









John Kerry Urges Syrian Factions Not to Squander U.N. TalksFEB. 1, 2016











Syria Peace Talks Inch Ahead as Bombings Near Damascus ContinueJAN. 31, 2016











Syria Talks Are Complicated by Competing Opposition GroupsJAN. 29, 2016











Who Is Fighting Whom in SyriaSEPT. 30, 2015







There have been no direct talks between the sides, but Mr. de Mistura said he considered the negotiations officially started because he had conferred with each delegation. He also called on the external powers involved in the conflict to immediately help create the basis for a cease-fire.
Continue reading the main story
Video

Officials on Syria Peace Talks


The British foreign minister, Philip Hammond, and the Jordanian foreign minister, Nasser Judeh, discussed the future of Syria and the need to end the civil war as quickly as possible.

                    By REUTERS on                                                                Publish Date February 1, 2016.
                                    

                                            Photo by Muhammad Hamed/Reuters.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed










Earlier, opposition members emerging from the meeting said they had received a “positive response” from Mr. de Mistura about their demands in creating the basis for talks with the government: a release of political prisoners, the lifting of sieges on insurgent-held areas and a halt to airstrikes.As a first step, they presented Mr. de Mistura with a list of 300 people, all women and children, whom they described as political prisoners of the forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad.The negotiations began amid further mayhem on the ground in Syria, where the death toll from a suicide attack on Sunday at a revered Shiite shrine near Damascus rose to 72 people, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a monitoring group.The Islamic State militant group claimed responsibility for the attack on the shrine, Sayeda Zeinab, which heightened the potential to sharpen sectarian divides in the conflict. The Islamic State, which controls parts of Syria and Iraq and is widely reviled as a Sunni extremist terrorist organization, is not a party to the Geneva talks, nor does it have any interest in a political settlement.In Moadhamiyeh, a rebel-held suburb of Damascus hit by heavy bombardment on Sunday, doctors said that investigations had shown that breathing difficulties in patients had been caused by dust and phosphates and not from a chemical weapon like chlorine, as they had initially feared.The Syrian government intensified its military advance even as it took steps to talk in Geneva. On Monday, a shell hit a school playground in the rebel-held town of Madaya, wounding several children, according to residents. The government has for months laid siege to Madaya, where some residents, including children, have starved because the delivery of emergency food and medicine has been obstructed. The United Nations has said the government is responsible for besieging roughly 187,000 people in rebel-held towns, while rebel groups are besieging two towns with around 12,000 residents.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Until now, a cease-fire had held in Madaya and neighboring Zabadani, along with two government-held towns to the north that are surrounded by insurgents. The renewed military strikes on Madaya began in recent days, along with the talks in Geneva, as the warring parties jockey for leverage at the table.Umm Majd, a Madaya resident reached by telephone who gave only her nickname out of concerns for her safety, called on Riad Hijab, the head of the opposition High Negotiations Committee, to pull out of the Geneva talks because the cease-fire had been broken.“What negotiations are they talking about?” she said. “We’re living in starvation and blood. Before the conference there was a truce, after it we have shelling.”She added: “I plead with the opposition negotiators to pull out. What are you negotiating on? On our blood! Or our children’s blood. Both ways we’re dying.”Her anger reflected the pressure on the opposition delegation as it started talks with Mr. de Mistura. Opposition fighters have lately lost ground on the battlefield, mainly because of Russian airstrikes in support of government forces.At the same time, the opposition has been eager to show willingness to start talks to end the war.


Hwaida Saad contributed reporting.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















