
  




Target Had Chance to Stop Breach, Senators Say - The New York Times










































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Target Had Chance to Stop Breach, Senators Say



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1dOQeW6




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Target Had Chance to Stop Breach, Senators Say

By ELIZABETH A. HARRISMARCH 26, 2014



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








WASHINGTON —  Two Democratic senators on Wednesday criticized Target’s management for not stopping a huge data breach of its systems, citing several missed opportunities to thwart the attack and protect customer data.Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia and chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, said at a hearing that the hacking last year of Target, one of the nation’s largest retailers, “must be a clarion call to businesses, both large and small, that it’s time to invest in some changes.”Senators Rockefeller and Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said that Target’s failure to heed warning signs of incursions by cybercriminals ultimately was the fault of its top executives.“The best technology in the world is useless unless there’s good management,” Mr. Blumenthal said. “And here, to be quite blunt, there were multiple warnings from the company’s anti-intrusion software; they were missed by management.”John J. Mulligan, the chief financial officer of Target, told the committee that the company was fortifying its security systems.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Mr. Mulligan and other witnesses said they supported heightened federal regulations, including uniform standards on breach notifications, which are now governed by a mix of state laws.Mr. Mulligan, who began and ended his testimony with effusive apologies for the breach, outlined steps by company to improve data security, including strengthening authentication requirements and narrowing access to its systems.“We know this has shaken their confidence, and we intend to earn it back,” Mr. Mulligan said of Target’s customers. “Like you, we are asking hard questions about whether we could have taken different actions before the breach was discovered that would have resulted in different outcomes.”
Photo






John Mulligan, second from left, Target’s chief financial officer, testified Wednesday before the  Senate Commerce Committee. 

Credit
            Gabriella Demczuk/The New York Times        


The breach at Target exposed payment card information of 40 million people and personal information, like phone numbers and email addresses, of 70 million people, making it one of the largest breaches in corporate history. Target has said it believes there is an overlap of at least 12 million people between the groups.Since Target acknowledged the breach last December, similar incidents have been disclosed by other retailers, including Neiman Marcus and Michaels, a chain of arts and craft stores. One loose band of online criminals is believed to be culpable for many of these crimes, but no arrests have been made.A Commerce Committee’s staff report said Target may have missed several chances to head off the attack, including by not responding to warning signs from its malware detection systems and not establishing more robust protections against suspicious activities, which could have raised red flags when data was uploaded to a server in Russia, for example.Also testifying at the hearing was Peter J. Beshar, the general counsel of Marsh & McLennan, who spoke about insurance against data breaches. In an earnings report last month, Target said that it spent $61 million in the fourth quarter on data breach expenses, before taxes, and expected to receive $44 million in insurance payments. Target executives have predicted those costs will continue.Several Democratic senators are backing a bill that would give the Federal Trade Commission oversight authority to regulate data security standards and

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

require breached companies to notify affected consumers.Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, pressed Mr. Mulligan and Ellen Richey, the chief enterprise risk officer at Visa, unsuccessfully for estimates of how much fraud had resulted from the data breach at Target, and asked which institutions would end up “holding the bag.”Senator McCaskill said “the bag” would largely fall in the laps of credit unions and local banks, rather than those of companies like Target and Visa.“I think it is confusing to the consuming public where this loss falls and where the costs are absorbed,” she said. “I think it’s very important that the risk be borne by those who must engage in the activity to protect.”Early this month, Beth M. Jacob, Target’s senior technology executive, resigned. She was the first senior executive to step down in the wake of the breach.Representatives from Snapchat, an app that allows users to send videos and pictures that are quickly deleted, declined an invitation to testify at the hearing, Senator Rockefeller said. In January, a group of security researchers announced they had hacked into Snapchat.

A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2014, on page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Target Had Chance to Stop Breach, Senators Say.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















