
  




Target Gives a Defense of Its Efforts on Security - The New York Times



























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|Target Gives a Defense of Its Efforts on Security



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1oPl1vt




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
Target Gives a Defense of Its Efforts on Security

By ELIZABETH A. HARRISJUNE 2, 2014



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








In advance of next week’s annual shareholders’ meeting, Target on Monday defended its management and oversight of customer data despite the extensive hacking it experienced last year.In a letter to shareholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Roxanne Austin, the interim chairwoman of Target’s board, listed steps the company had taken toward increasing information security since the breach last year, and she described the security apparatus in place before the attack.“Breaches are occurring across the economy and are affecting a wide range of victims including the U.S. government, the technology and defense industries and more traditional companies, like retailers,” the letter said. “Your board fully recognizes the importance of its oversight responsibilities in this area. Under the board’s leadership and oversight, Target took significant action to address evolving cybercrime risks before the breach.”Last week, an influential shareholder advisory group, Institutional Shareholder Services, said that the majority of Target’s directors did not deserve to be re-elected because they had not provided sufficient risk oversight before the breach. I.S.S. recommended that shareholders vote against seven of the 10 board members, including Ms. Austin. Before the breach, which exposed the data of tens of millions of Target customers, the company spent hundreds of millions of dollars on network security in areas like technology and personnel and had a staff of more than 300 information security employees, Ms. Austin said. That was double the staff it had in that area five years ago. It also required data security training for all employees every year and had a security operations center staffed at all hours to keep an eye out for suspicious activity, among other measures.Many information security experts, however, have said the company did not have certain important safeguards measures in place. And in March, the retailer acknowledged that its computer system had sent out alerts of suspicious activity during the breach, but that those warnings were ultimately ignored.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Ms. Austin’s letter also highlighted steps the company had taken in response since the breach was revealed in December, including accelerating its conversion to a more secure payment-card technology on its branded cards and in its stores and hiring a new chief information officer.The letter did not address other significant personnel changes made at the company in recent months, including the resignation of the chief executive, Gregg Steinhafel. A search is underway for his replacement. The chief information officer at the time of the breach, Beth M. Jacob, resigned as well.

A version of this article appears in print on June 3, 2014, on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Target Gives a Defense of Its Efforts on Security.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















