



The Web Means the End of Forgetting - NYTimes.com

























































campaign: abTest_bar1_ft_upsell_inyt_0116 -- 282944, creative: abTest_bar1_ft_upsell_nyt_0116_ad -- 412102, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/magazine/25privacy-t2.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/magazine, position: Bar1












Log In
Register Now



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular
Times Topics








Search All NYTimes.com










Magazine





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








The Web Means the End of Forgetting

Photo Illustration by James Wojcik. Prop Stylist: Megan Caponetto.
 
 By JEFFREY ROSEN
 Published: July 21, 2010






Sign In to E-Mail


Print


 Single Page



 









Reprints











Four years ago, Stacy Snyder, then a 25-year-old teacher in training at Conestoga Valley High School in Lancaster, Pa., posted a photo on her MySpace page that showed her at a party wearing a pirate hat and drinking from a plastic cup, with the caption “Drunken Pirate.” After discovering the page, her supervisor at the high school told her the photo was “unprofessional,” and the dean of Millersville University School of Education, where Snyder was enrolled, said she was promoting drinking in virtual view of her under-age students. As a result, days before Snyder’s scheduled graduation, the university denied her a teaching degree. Snyder sued, arguing that the university had violated her First Amendment rights by penalizing her for her (perfectly legal) after-hours behavior. But in 2008, a federal district judge rejected the claim, saying that because Snyder was a public employee whose photo didn’t relate to matters of public concern, her “Drunken Pirate” post was not protected speech.		











Ask the Experts



Paul Ohm, a law professor at the University of Colorado, and Michael Fertik, founder of ReputationDefender, answer reader questions about Internet privacy. Read Part I and Part II.



 

Related



Letters: The End of Forgetting
(August 8, 2010)






Enlarge This Image




Photo Illustration by James Wojcik. Prop Stylist: Megan Caponetto.






When historians of the future look back on the perils of the early digital age, Stacy Snyder may well be an icon. The problem she faced is only one example of a challenge that, in big and small ways, is confronting millions of people around the globe: how best to live our lives in a world where the Internet records everything and forgets nothing — where every online photo, status update, Twitter post and blog entry by and about us can be stored forever. With Web sites like LOL Facebook Moments, which collects and shares embarrassing personal revelations from Facebook users, ill-advised photos and online chatter are coming back to haunt people months or years after the fact. Examples are proliferating daily: there was the 16-year-old British girl who was fired from her office job for complaining on Facebook, “I’m so totally bored!!”; there was the 66-year-old Canadian psychotherapist who tried to enter the United States but was turned away at the border — and barred permanently from visiting the country — after a border guard’s Internet search found that the therapist had written an article in a philosophy journal describing his experiments 30 years ago with L.S.D.		
According to a recent survey by Microsoft, 75 percent of U.S. recruiters and human-resource professionals report that their companies require them to do online research about candidates, and many use a range of sites when scrutinizing applicants — including search engines, social-networking sites, photo- and video-sharing sites, personal Web sites and blogs, Twitter and online-gaming sites. Seventy percent of U.S. recruiters report that they have rejected candidates because of information found online, like photos and discussion-board conversations and membership in controversial groups.		
Technological advances, of course, have often presented new threats to privacy. In 1890, in perhaps the most famous article on privacy ever written, Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis complained that because of new technology — like the Kodak camera and the tabloid press — “gossip is no longer the resource of the idle and of the vicious but has become a trade.” But the mild society gossip of the Gilded Age pales before the volume of revelations contained in the photos, video and chatter on social-media sites and elsewhere across the Internet. Facebook, which surpassed MySpace in 2008 as the largest social-networking site, now has nearly 500 million members, or 22 percent of all Internet users, who spend more than 500 billion minutes a month on the site. Facebook users share more than 25 billion pieces of content each month (including news stories, blog posts and photos), and the average user creates 70 pieces of content a month. There are more than 100 million registered Twitter users, and the Library of Congress recently announced that it will be acquiring — and permanently storing — the entire archive of public Twitter posts since 2006.		
In Brandeis’s day — and until recently, in ours — you had to be a celebrity to be gossiped about in public: today all of us are learning to expect the scrutiny that used to be reserved for the famous and the infamous. A 26-year-old Manhattan woman told The New York Times that she was afraid of being tagged in online photos because it might reveal that she wears only two outfits when out on the town — a Lynyrd Skynyrd T-shirt or a basic black dress. “You have movie-star issues,” she said, “and you’re just a person.”		
We’ve known for years that the Web allows for unprecedented voyeurism, exhibitionism and inadvertent indiscretion, but we are only beginning to understand the costs of an age in which so much of what we say, and of what others say about us, goes into our permanent — and public — digital files. The fact that the Internet never seems to forget is threatening, at an almost existential level, our ability to control our identities; to preserve the option of reinventing ourselves and starting anew; to overcome our checkered pasts.		
In a recent book, “Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital Age,” the cyberscholar Viktor Mayer-Schönberger cites Stacy Snyder’s case as a reminder of the importance of “societal forgetting.” By “erasing external memories,” he says in the book, “our society accepts that human beings evolve over time, that we have the capacity to learn from past experiences and adjust our behavior.” In traditional societies, where missteps are observed but not necessarily recorded, the limits of human memory ensure that people’s sins are eventually forgotten. By contrast, Mayer-Schönberger notes, a society in which everything is recorded “will forever tether us to all our past actions, making it impossible, in practice, to escape them.” He concludes that “without some form of forgetting, forgiving becomes a difficult undertaking.”		
It’s often said that we live in a permissive era, one with infinite second chances. But the truth is that for a great many people, the permanent memory bank of the Web increasingly means there are no second chances — no opportunities to escape a scarlet letter in your digital past. Now the worst thing you’ve done is often the first thing everyone knows about you.		 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8 Next Page » 
Jeffrey Rosen, a law professor at George Washington University, is a frequent contributor to the magazine. He is writing a book about Louis Brandeis. 

 




 






A version of this article appeared in print on July 25, 2010, on page MM30 of the Sunday Magazine.



 









Sign In to E-Mail


Print


 Single Page



 Reprints









Past CoverageSMALL BUSINESS GUIDE; Tapping the Wisdom of the Crowd (August 4, 2010)Delhi Police Use Facebook to Track Scofflaw Drivers (August 1, 2010)The End of Forgetting (July 25, 2010)SCENE STEALER; In Hollywood, Everybody's A Digital Revolutionary (July 25, 2010)

Related Searches









Computers and the Internet

Get E-Mail Alerts





Social Networking (Internet)

Get E-Mail Alerts





Privacy

Get E-Mail Alerts





Search Engines

Get E-Mail Alerts






























MOST POPULAR


Emailed
Searched
Viewed





A New Vision for Dreams of the Dying
Op-Ed | Adam Grant: How to Raise a Creative Child. Step One: Back Off
Op-Ed Contributor: How Both Parties Lost the White Middle Class
The Getaway: The Best Day to Buy Airline Tickets? Well, That Depends.
David Brooks: Donald Trump Isn’t Real
Bank Tellers, With Access to Accounts, Pose a Rising Security Risk
Adjusting Medication May Prolong Levine’s Tenure at the Met
Black America and the Class Divide
Essay: Everything About Everything: David Foster Wallace’s ‘Infinite Jest’ at 20
How Free Electricity Helped Dig $9 Billion Hole in Puerto Rico

Go to Complete List »



downton abbey recap
zika
crossword
modern love
donald trump
education
hillary clinton
china
bernie sanders
social q's

Go to Complete List »



2016 Primary Calendar and Results
Ted Cruz Wins Republican Caucuses in Iowa
Little Separates Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton in Tight Race in Iowa
Benoît Violier’s Death Shines Light on High-Pressure Restaurant World
David Brooks: Donald Trump Isn’t Real
The Upshot: Why a ‘Virtual Tie’ in Iowa Is Better for Clinton Than Sanders
Op-Ed Contributor: How Both Parties Lost the White Middle Class
The Upshot: How to Understand Donald Trump’s Defeat in Iowa
Iowa’s Democratic Caucus Results, Precinct by Precinct
Who Is Leading the Iowa and New Hampshire Polls

Go to Complete List »






























 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating










Home

World


U.S.


N.Y. / Region


Business


Technology


Science


Health


Sports


Opinion


Arts


Style


Travel


Jobs


Real Estate


Autos

Back to Top
 
Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
Privacy
Terms of Service
Search
Corrections
RSS
First Look
Help
Contact Us
Work for Us
Advertise
Site Map















campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/magazine/25privacy-t2.html, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/yr/mo/day/magazine, position: Inv1

