



TECHNOLOGY -  Brazilian Company Is Hacking Its Way Up - NYTimes.com














































 



















Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Business Day





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos



















International
DealBook
Markets
Economy
Energy
Media
Technology
Personal Tech
Entrepreneurship
Your Money










TECHNOLOGY
TECHNOLOGY; Brazilian Company Is Hacking Its Way Up


By JENNIFER L. RICH


Published: February 26, 2001









RIO DE JANEIRO, Feb. 25— 
                    The first time Rinaldo Ribeiro hacked into the computer, he did it in less than three minutes.        

                    Vendors from the largest information security companies in the world had rigged the system, a Windows NT server, to try to keep him out, but that did not faze him. Nor did the several dozen people who were watching his every move on a large overhead video screen. What bothered him was that it had been too easy.        

                    ''I talked to the guy in charge afterwards to ask if they had left the flaw in on purpose because it was really simple and quick,'' said Mr. Ribeiro, whose boyish grin makes him look younger than his 26 years.        

                    Mr. Ribeiro is a professional hacker with Módulo Security Solutions, an information security firm here. He broke into the system in New Orleans 16 months ago while attending a conference sponsored by the Sans Institute, a leading research center for the security world. Each year, the institute challenges industry professionals from around the world to try and hack into a secure Internet server.        

                    Of the 40 or so people who tried to beat the computer in New Orleans, only Mr. Ribeiro and two others succeeded. When Mr. Ribeiro defended his title last March at a conference in Orlando, he was the only one. That time, it took him eight minutes. He plans to defend his title again in May, at a conference in Baltimore.        

                    ''He seems like he really knows his stuff,'' said Christopher Pettit, a senior security officer at the Computer Sciences Corporation and a designer of the Sans Institute's challenge. ''I would tend to hire a company like his because I know I would have somebody who understands what is going on.''        

                    That is exactly what Módulo is counting on. The company, with employees like Mr. Ribeiro, and with a second round of venture capital financing expected to close any day, is a market leader for information security in Brazil, serving clients here like Microsoft and ABN Amro. Having acquired five smaller security companies the last year, Módulo is setting off to conquer new markets elsewhere in Latin America and in the United States. Its goal is to become one of the largest security companies in the world.        

                    Módulo, with revenues of $13.6 million last year, is housed in a nondescript office building in downtown Rio, and it still has a long way to go to catch up with current leaders. The major consulting firms, like KPMG, provide security services, as do big software vendors like Oracle. But analysts say that the market is ripe for new contenders.        

                    ''There are so many mom-and-pop information security companies out there, like the software industry 25 years ago,'' said Darren Lacey, managing director of the Information Security Institute at Johns Hopkins. ''If you are good at it and you can get a few flagship customers, you are a player.''        

                    Though technology companies are suffering, the information security industry is booming, thanks in part to a growing number of high-profile attacks. Last month, for instance, vandals broke into the computer system of the economic summit in Davos, Switzerland, and downloaded files filled with personal information on the participants.        

                    With companies scrambling to protect their privileged information, the worldwide market for security services is projected to grow to $17.2 billion in 2004 from $5.5 billion in 1999, according to the International Data Corporation, a market research firm. The United States is expected to account for nearly half that spending.        

                    Módulo was founded in 1985 by 13 students at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, home to one of only two mainframe computers in the country at the time. With computers only trickling into the protected Brazilian market, the partners recognized the potential security risks in allowing a number of people to share the same computer, and they set about developing software that would limit each user's access.        

                    As Brazilian banks started automating, they became Módulo's first big clients, and the company's security services grew along with its clients' needs.        

                    By 1993, the company had developed a patented method, called security analysis and certification, to evaluate a company's security risks -- a process that involved everything from debriefing employees to staging hacker attacks.        

                    ''We find all of the vulnerabilities that a company might have -- networks, laptops, palmtops and especially personnel,'' said Jaime Araújo, vice president for marketing and business development at Módulo. ''We had a client once who had information stolen because a competing company hired away the driver of the C.E.O.'s car.''        

                    The next year, Módulo got its big break, winning a contract from the Brazilian government to secure a nationwide project to computerize voting. In last year's municipal elections, Módulo trained 2,000 poll workers and provided security for more than 13,000 electronic voting machines throughout the country. The company also won a federal  contract in 1997 to provide security for income tax filing over the Internet. Last year, 11 million Brazilians filed tax returns electronically.        

                    But according to Mr. Araújo, the fortunes of the company really changed when the partners decided to enter a business plan contest sponsored by the Brazilian government in 1997.        







1

2


Next Page >




 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Inv1
