
  




Ted Cruz’s Prospects Ascendant, Though Perhaps Not With Senate Peers - The New York Times


















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|Ted Cruz’s Prospects Ascendant, Though Perhaps Not With Senate Peers



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement







Supported by



Politics 
Ted Cruz’s Prospects Ascendant, Though Perhaps Not With Senate Peers

By JENNIFER STEINHAUERMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






Senator Ted Cruz after a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing last year. Democrats are hoping that Mr. Cruz could prove as much of a drag on Senate and other down-ballot races as his rival, Donald J. Trump.

Credit
            Zach Gibson/The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



WASHINGTON — Senator Ted Cruz of Texas hopes his presidential fortunes are rising as he approaches a cluster of Republican primaries. But his prospects seem pretty flat among his party colleagues.







Interviews with a dozen Republican senators on Tuesday morning failed to yield a single endorsement for Mr. Cruz, even though his fellow freshman, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, has a dozen or so colleagues backing him. Even Donald J. Trump, whom many Republicans have gone out of their way to dismiss as unfit for office, has the support of a fellow immigration hawk, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama.Some senators simply said they would support whoever wins the nomination. Other smiled wanly, as if wishing they had superpowers that could remove them from the scene. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Donald Trump or Ted Cruz? Republicans Argue Over Who Is Greater ThreatJAN. 21, 2016











Donald Trump Is Forcing Ted Cruz to Rewrite His PlaybookJAN. 20, 2016







“It’s, uh, well, look at the alternatives,” said Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, when asked if his party could rally around Mr. Cruz at some juncture. Mr. Cruz has been gaining on Mr. Trump over the last week and lags him by fewer than 100 delegates, while a new poll shows Mr. Trump’s popularity may be flagging after a wave of new attacks ads.
Photo






Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, joked with reporters on Tuesday about rumors of her running for president.

Credit
            Doug Mills/The New York Times        










Presidential Election 2016
Here’s the latest news and analysis of the candidates and issues shaping the presidential race.







                                Mitt Romney Records Another Anti-Trump Message, This Time for John Kasich            
MAR 8








                                Hillary Clinton Ad Derides Companies Moving Overseas            
MAR 8








                                Fox News Forum May Signal Thaw Between Democrats and Network            
MAR 8








                                What We’re Watching as 4 States Vote and Both Parties Court Michigan            
MAR 8








                                Mitt Romney Records Phone Message for Marco Rubio’s Campaign            
MAR 7






See More »



“I am crestfallen that my candidate, Jeb Bush, is out of the running,” said Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who added that she would endorse no one. Perhaps she was just being self-interested. Ms. Collins joked that she and Senator Joe Donnelly, Democrat of Indiana, having recently been named the two most bipartisan senators by a policy think tank, were planning to run on their own ticket. “We were worried about having an all-Catholic ticket,” Mr. Collins said.Mr. Cruz is one of the least popular senators on Capitol Hill, in large part because he masterminded the 2013 government shutdown in a failed attempt to roll back President Obama’s health care law, something Senator Richard Burr, Republican of North Carolina, said at the time was “the dumbest idea I have ever heard.” Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, wrote Mr. Cruz a letter last year warning him not to try the same tactic over funding for Planned Parenthood. Both are up for re-election.Of course, that was just one offense. Mr. Cruz once took to the Senate floor to call the majority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, a liar, and has called his Republican colleagues a feckless “Washington Cartel.” Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, majors in defense issues and minors in blasting Mr. Cruz.Mr. Cruz has been trying to run as a Washington outsider — which has been rather difficult while standing next to Mr. Trump — and has not really craved any of his colleagues’ endorsements. But voters may notice that Mr. Cruz is like that summer camper who has only managed to make one true friend — Senator Mike Lee of Utah — who, by the way, has also failed to endorse him. “It’s something voters may want to weigh,” Ms. Collins said.Democrats are hoping that Mr. Cruz could prove as much of a drag on Senate and other down-ballot races as Mr. Trump.On Tuesday, Democrats ostentatiously invited Patty Judge, a former Iowa lieutenant governor and state agriculture secretary, who has decided to seek the Democratic nomination to challenge Senator Charles E. Grassley this fall, to their weekly policy lunch.Mr. Grassley, who is seeking a seventh term, is the chairman of the Judiciary Committee and has come under fire back in Iowa over his refusal to hold hearings on any Supreme Court nominee that Mr. Obama puts forward.Asked if Mr. Cruz could be a less divisive figure than Mr. Trump, whom many Republicans have attacked in recent weeks, Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said: “I don’t know that. I think everyone will have to make up their own minds.”


Follow The New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















