



THE TERROR CONSPIRACY -  THE SECURITY -  U.S. Steps Up Precautions At Its Offices And Airports - NYTimes.com































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










N.Y. / Region





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








THE TERROR CONSPIRACY: THE SECURITY
THE TERROR CONSPIRACY: THE SECURITY; U.S. Steps Up Precautions At Its Offices And Airports


By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA


Published: October 2, 1995









                    At government buildings in New York and at airports across the country, security was tightened yesterday within hours of the conviction of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman and his followers in a bombing conspiracy trial.        

                    Federico F. Pena, the United States Transportation Secretary, who ordered heightened security at the nation's airports in August, ordered still more security measures yesterday.        

                    Officially, the measures were not attributed to the verdict. But a Federal official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said they were responses to the verdict, last week's Israeli-Palestinian accord, the impending visit of Pope John Paul II and the impending 50th anniversary celebration of the United Nations, each of which has raised fears of terrorist attacks.        

                    In a statement, Mr. Pena warned airline passengers that they should be more prepared than usual to identify themselves, to have their baggage inspected and answer questions about it, to observe parking restrictions and not leave cars unattended near terminals and to open the trunks of their cars on request.        

                    "I ask the traveling public for your understanding and cooperation during periods of increased security," he said.        

                    Since August, when law enforcement officials said they had received a bombing threat, security at Kennedy International Airport has been at the highest level at any American airport since the 1991 Persian Gulf war. Unattended cars have been towed, a parking lot has been closed and trash cans have been removed, along with any piece of luggage left by itself.        

                    At government buildings in New York City yesterday, including courts and the building that houses offices of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, many more police officers and security guards were visible than on a normal Sunday. Officials at various agencies, including the Police Department, the F.B.I. and the Secret Service, would not acknowledge the added security, or say how long it would last.        

                    A month ago, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey increased security at its buildings, which include the World Trade Center, the target of a February 1993 bombing tied to Mr. Abdel Rahman and his followers, and the Lincoln and Holland tunnels, which were said to be the among the group's intended targets.        

                    "It has remained at an increased level since then," said Terry Benczik, a spokeswoman for the authority. She declined to specify the measures that had been taken.        

                    Chart: "Terrorism Trial Ends in Convictions" lists the defendants found guilty of conspiracy for plotting assassinations and bombings in a Jihad or Holy War        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/nyregion, position: Inv1
