
  




University of Illinois Case: Privacy vs. Press Freedom - The New York Times
































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Education|Privacy and Press Freedom Collide in University Case



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/rsJegG




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Education 
Privacy and Press Freedom Collide in University Case

By TAMAR LEWINOCT. 20, 2011


Inside









Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



It was bad enough for the University of Illinois when The Chicago Tribune’s 2009 series “Clout Goes to College” exposed the existence of a “clout list” that over five years gave hundreds of well-connected students an edge in admissions, and led to the resignations of the university president, the chancellor of the flagship Urbana-Champaign campus and most of the trustees.







But two years later, the university is still mired in litigation before the federal appeals court in Chicago, fighting the release of more documents the newspaper has asked for, including the names and addresses of the parents on the clout list. The university has turned over about 5,200 pages of documents to the newspaper. But in a separate state court proceeding, The Tribune is seeking the grade point averages and ACT scores of the students accepted from the clout list.Those requests set off a shootout between the state’s freedom of information law and the federal privacy law for educational records. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    





U. of Illinois Admissions Process Was Tainted, Panel FindsAUG. 6, 2009







Times Topic: Colleges and Universities 






The university, backed by the big guns of academia, argues that the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, or Ferpa, forbids disclosure of such information — and threatens the loss of federal financing if it hands over private records. Personal information about students is precisely what the federal privacy act was designed to protect, it said, raising the specter of a world in which students might be shamed by the public release of their academic credentials.“If you give me the parents’ name and address, and identify the student’s sponsor, I can identify the student,” said Sam Skinner, a lawyer for the university. “Basically, what this comes down to is whether a student’s name, or sources that would reveal his name, are protected by Ferpa, and we believe Congress meant to protect students’ personalized information.”Mr. Skinner said the university’s position is that anything anyone sends in about any applicant is a student record protected by the law.But The Tribune, backed by media groups including The New York Times, argues that the documents are not education records under the federal law, but rather records of questionable conduct, so the public’s right to know should prevail.“When Governor Blagojevich calls the chancellor and says, ‘Admit this favored person,’ that’s not an admission record kept in someone’s file,” said James Klenk, a lawyer for The Tribune. “That’s something that should be disclosed to the public. We’re investigating public officials in their decision making. Some people were admitted not on their merits, while other people, on the merits, didn’t get those spots, and that’s wrong.”A friend-of-the-court brief for the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press and the Student Press Law Center, joined by leading media organizations including The New York Times, said that all too often, the privacy act was abused.“This case presents the increasingly familiar tale of a public university that, embarrassed by its own wrongdoing, cries ‘student privacy’ in an attempt to frustrate public disclosure of information reflecting unflatteringly on the conduct of the university’s administrators,” the brief said.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
That same argument, it said, has been used before: by administrators at Florida State University seeking to conceal correspondence with the N.C.A.A. about preferential academic assistance for athletes; officials at Laramie County Community College in Wyoming trying to conceal a report about the college president’s behavior on an overseas trip; and those at the University of North Carolina trying to conceal records regarding an athlete parking ticket scandal.Parents and university officials who used the clout list to bypass the merit-based application process, the brief said, “cannot now claim any reasonable right to privacy to cover their actions, as it is far outweighed by the newsworthiness of the scandal and the right of the public to hold accountable those responsible for perpetrating a fraud.”Judge Joan B. Gottschall of Federal District Court, who heard The Tribune’s motion for a summary judgment in March, sided with the newspaper. She ruled that although Ferpa does provide penalties for releasing protected student information, it does not actually prohibit such releases because universities could choose to release the information and face the possible loss of federal money — hundreds of millions of dollars, in the case of the University of Illinois. That suggestion galvanized academia.“The decision that came out of the district court has made institutions nervous, because the decision essentially put to the university the Hobson’s choice of declining or returning federal money, or violating a court order telling it to comply with the freedom of information law,” said Ada Meloy, general counsel of the American Council on Education, one of the groups that signed on to a friend-of-the-court brief backing the university. The Justice Department also filed a brief in support of the university.But the threat of losing federal financing is an empty one in this case. At the oral argument before a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, the judges referred to a letter from the Department of Education saying it had no plans to ask the university to forfeit its federal financing.At oral arguments last month, the panel seemed inclined to accept the argument that there was a strong public interest in the records being sought.“They want to know, who are these families, what are their connections?” Judge Richard A. Posner said. “That’s legitimate, that’s important.”But the judges sounded skeptical that they should be the ones deciding the case, given that the open-records law being invoked was an Illinois statute. “I don’t understand what this case is doing in federal court,” said Judge Frank H. Easterbrook, who asked for supplemental briefs on the jurisdiction question.But one way or another — in one court or another — the question will have to be resolved.“This is an honest disagreement between The Tribune and the university about what’s protected,” Mr. Skinner said.


A version of this article appears in print on October 21, 2011, on page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Privacy and Press Freedom Collide in University Case.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















