



THE EXECUTIVE COMPUTER -    TYING PERSONAL COMPUTERS TOGETHER - NYTimes.com













































 



















Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Business Day





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos



















International
DealBook
Markets
Economy
Energy
Media
Technology
Personal Tech
Entrepreneurship
Your Money










THE EXECUTIVE COMPUTER
THE EXECUTIVE COMPUTER;   TYING PERSONAL COMPUTERS TOGETHER


By Erik Sandberg-Diment


Published: April 7, 1985









                    ONE of the hallmarks of the office is the water cooler, a communications node where people gather to exchange information. The talk is probably as often about nonbusiness matters as it is about any consuming office projects at hand, but regardless of the content, people are communicating. The point is, people talk to each other, computers do not.        

                    And that fact highlights one of the limitations of personal computers in an office environment. The first users were so mesmerized by the wonders of word processing or the marvel of spreadsheets automatically recalculating values that they asked for little more than their very own machines.        

                    Now, however, as offices acquire more personal computers, new demands on them and new problems attendant upon their use are arising. Data compiled on one computer may not run on another, for example, and suddenly there is a plethora of printers, disk drives and other peripherals, many of them idle much of the time. Duplication in equipment is rampant, utilization is low, and costs are beginning to go through the roof. Enter local area networks, or LAN's, those electronic spider webs that are supposed to tie the electronic office equipment neatly together, and increase its utilization.        

                    LAN's theoretically offer three advantages: intercomputer communications, peripheral sharing and file sharing. But the network systems offer these benefits with varying degrees of sophistication, the refinement depending on the hardware and the software involved.        

                    Physically, these networks resemble a telephone system that connects computers. Wires run out from all the computers, printers and peripherals, linking them electronically.        

                    The visual comparison is apt, since a telephone system is the most common example of a network. But what differentiates a local area network from such a system is, as the name implies, its range. The reach of the computer network's tentacles is very limited, usually encompassing a single office, building or cluster of closely situated buildings.        

                    The three components from which the LAN's currently available are constructed are the cables that physically connect the computers, add-on cards for each computer that allow the computers to be linked to the cables, and, of course, the appropriate software. The hardware is essentially of two types, and the one selected can affect the future of a company's entire computer development.        

                    The most popular form of network until recently has been baseband, the type exemplified by the Xerox Corporation's Ethernet system. Baseband networking equipment is relatively inexpensive and simple both to manufacture and to install. In a baseband network, the various physical components are hooked up by means of a single coaxial wire, twisted-pair wire or the more technologically sophisticated optical fibers.        

                    All of these connectors, incidentally, have to be installed rather carefully. They cannot simply be draped around in the manner of the cable coiling its way out from a telephone handset. A twisted, kinked or mashed baseband cable can change its electrical characteristics, causing, among other problems, what is known as impedance irregularities. In a worst-case example of such irregularities, a signal sent out by a computer is reflected back to the machine. The computer just sits there beating its signals against itself.        

                    In a baseband system, only one communications signal can be on line at a time. The limitation is far greater than might first appear, for although transmission over a baseband network is rapid enough to give the human eye the impression of various machines working efficiently and simultaneously together, their mutual efforts are in fact slowed by being limited to a single communications channel. Furthermore, a baseband network is limited to transmitting only computer data.        

                    The offices of today and the near future need a broader range of data communications capabilities than that. Quite apart from digital data exchange, voice transmission and even, in some cases, video transmission will soon become valuable network adjuncts. For these facilities, what is called a broadband network will be needed.        

                    A broadband network employs a concept similar to that of cable television. Instead of a single signal being transmitted over a cable, a broad spectrum of signals, each confined to a specified frequency range, can be conveyed by the same cable at the same time. The potential for simultaneous voice, video and data transmission is thus built right into the system.        

                    THE International Business Machines Corporation's recently announced PC Network -        

                    which employs not an I.B.M. technology, but, rather, one licensed from Sytek Inc. - is an example of a broadband network. But while this LAN has the capabilities of a broadband system, it is really not much more effective than the older baseband networks, because at the moment it utilizes only two of a number of channels available. One is reserved for sending information from the computers or peripherals to what is called the head end, the message-translating device that organizes the transmitted and received data. The other conveys information from the head end back to the computers and peripherals.        

                    Thus, many channels are left open for other transmissions. However, I.B.M. is not currently doing anything with them. A company using the PC Network could certainly make use of the open channels, although it would be wise to seek out a consultant to put the whole system together.        

                    The way in which networks are utilized by computers is even more complex than the way in which the pieces are puzzled together. But it is not necessary for the average purchaser of a LAN to become involved in the esoteric, if often fascinating, details of the locomotion of network data. When all is said and done, the practical differences between the two types of LAN's boil down to their comparative degree of flexibility, room for future expansion and speed of data handling.        

                    Data transmission speed in a network is determined by the slowest common denominator of the network, namely, the disk- or file-server controlling the network's information storage device. Servers act as security and traffic police, determining how and to what source information should be dished out. File-servers are much more elegant and convenient than disk-servers. They are also more expensive, however, and not always available.        

                    Expense and availability are, for that matter, effective criteria in general for companies trying to decide whether this is to be the year of the LAN or not. Most likely, it will not be. A lot of systems may be installed, but it will probably be 1987 or 1988 before such systems become truly practical and convenient to use.        

                    By then, it may be too late for LAN's. Considering their cost, once an office has standardized its personal computers and high-capacity optical storage technology has reached common acceptance, it may make more economic sense - at least for small companies - to have employees simply pick up a disk and carry it to the next desk on the way to the water cooler, rather than spend thousands of dollars - or more - to do it electronically.        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Inv1
