
  




The Venus Flytrap, a Plant That Can Count - The New York Times








































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Science|The Venus Flytrap, a Plant That Can Count



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/202k7cY




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Science 
The Venus Flytrap, a Plant That Can Count



 
 


 James Gorman
 


SCIENCETAKE
FEB. 1, 2016



Inside








Continue reading the main story
Video

ScienceTake | Plants Can Count?


The Venus flytrap, a plant that eats insects, will clamp its leaves shut only after trigger hairs are tripped two times within about 20 seconds. Even without nerves, it counts electric impulses that go from cell to cell.

                    By DAVID FRANK and JAMES GORMAN on                                                                Publish Date February 1, 2016.
                                    


Watch in Times Video »







embed












Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Carnivorous plants stir the imagination. You can find the results in science fiction novels ( “The Day of the Triffids”), Broadway plays(“Little Shop of Horrors”) and in recent research that concludes that the Venus flytrap can count.







Not out loud, of course. And no one is claiming that the plants are aware that they are counting. But even so, this is the first time someone has demonstrated counting in a plant, according to the researcher who led the experiments, Rainer Hedrich at the University of Würzburg, in Germany.Dr. Hedrich, Jennifer Böhm and Sönke Scherzer, all at Würzburg, and a team of other scientists reported their research in Current Biology.Venus flytraps are carnivorous. They live in poor soil and pull needed nutrients from the insects they trap and dissolve. Their trap is a pair of leaves that act as jaws and stomach.







ScienceTake
ScienceTake combines cutting-edge research from the world of science with stunning footage of the natural world in action.








                                Some Carnivores Are Better Than Others at Unlocking Dinner            









                                This Tiny Chameleon’s Tongue Has Power That Can’t Be Disguised            









                                When the Situation Is Fluid, Sit Back and Watch            









                                Water’s Big (and Then Bigger) Bounce            









                                A Side Serving of Science for Your Next Birthday Party            






See More »



When an insect lands and bumps into trigger hairs on the surface of these leaves, the trap closes. As digestive enzymes seep into the trap, it becomes what Dr. Hedrich calls a “green stomach,” and the prey is gradually turned into a nourishing soup.Scientists knew that an insect had to bump the trigger hairs more than once to cause the trap to shut, presumably to avoid wasting energy by responding to random raindrops and windblown debris.In the recent experiment, researchers studied how the plant was responding to movement of the trigger hairs, and determined that it was counting electrical pulses from them.Plants don’t have a nervous system to transmit these pulses as animals do, but a spike in electricity produced by biochemical changes can travel on the surfaces of cells.The researchers flicked the trigger hairs while they recorded electrical activity in the plant. The motor cells that close the leafy jaws on prey acted only when they received two signals within about 20 seconds. That meant that the cells somehow remembered the first signal for a short time. After 20 seconds, this first electrical pulse was forgotten, essentially resetting the process.But closing the trap on an insect is only Step 1. The Venus flytrap must also dissolve its prey. Two flicks of a trigger hair were not enough to kick off that mechanism. More than three flicks of a trigger hair were needed to signal the cells that produce digestive enzymes to begin that process.In nature, the trigger hairs are activated time and again as the trapped prey struggles. That frenzy gives the plant a way to judge the amount of digestive enzymes needed. Dr. Hedrich and colleagues found that more electric signals from the trigger hairs translated proportionally into more enzymes for the green stomach.Dr. David Clapham at Harvard, who studies the biochemistry of how animal cells generate electric signals as a way to transmit signals in their nervous systems, said he was intrigued by what seemed to be this “just-in-time” system of providing digestive juices. The flytrap expends energy only to produce enzymes when they are needed and only in the amount needed, an efficient mechanism for a plant living in a poor environment.The process is slow compared with what occurs in animals, he said. But, “Plants have a lot more time to react.”Dr. Hedrich said that electrical signals were produced by biochemical changes and that this process evolved very early in the history of life. “A single cell can be electrically excited,” he said.Asked about primitive animals, like the worm C. elegans, studied in many laboratories around the world by many, many scientists, he joked, “I think the Venus flytrap is much smarter than C. elegans,” quickly adding with a laugh, “Don’t quote me on that.”





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















