



THE EXECUTIVE COMPUTER -  Building a Moat With Software - NYTimes.com













































 



















Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Business Day





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos



















International
DealBook
Markets
Economy
Energy
Media
Technology
Personal Tech
Entrepreneurship
Your Money










THE EXECUTIVE COMPUTER
THE EXECUTIVE COMPUTER; Building a Moat With Software


By Peter H. Lewis


Published: September 3, 1989









                    GEOFFREY WIENER went to his accountant's office to discuss a tax return. The accountant, who was scrupulous about the security and the confidentiality of his clients' financial data, kept all the papers in a locked file cabinet. When he tried to get out Mr. Wiener's return, the accountant could not get his key to open the lock, and the spare key was at lunch with his secretary. Mr. Wiener, a computer technician, asked if the return had been created on the personal computer in the office. Told that it had, he logged on to the Lotus 1-2-3 directory and sent his file to the printer. The accountant was stunned that office security could so easily be breached.        

                    That episode illustrates a fact of office life: most computer files contain information that is not supposed to be available to everyone who knows how to operate a computer, but many offices do not use security and data encryption software to build a fence that unauthorized users cannot climb. Using a security program, companies could block or limit access to a hard disk, a directory or even certain files in a directory. Encryption programs scramble a file so that even if someone manages to get through the first level of security, the file will be unreadable without the right key.        

                    But a couple of caveats are in order. First, technology is only half the solution. Passwords and encryption keys will work only if the employees use them and do not share them. Second, no security system can keep out a dedicated and skilled thief; it can only delay the theft. But the longer thieves are delayed the more likely they are to try somewhere else.        

                    When Mr. Wiener left his accountant's office, he went back to his company, Software Directions Inc., which makes a program called PrintQ, which is used by many large companies to manage documents awaiting printing. Mr. Wiener called the PC security officers at those companies and asked what features they would like to see in PC security software. Some companies identified esoteric requirements, he said, but ''99 percent of them identified the same four features: hard disk access control, automatic data encryption with file ownership, automatic and manual lockout, and virus protection.''        

                    ''Another thing we have learned,'' Mr. Wiener said, ''is that if security is difficult, people won't use it, and if people don't use it, you don't have security.'' So the goal at Software Directions was to come up with a program that shielded the user from the rituals of good security and the black science of encryption.        

                    The result was Softsafe ($99 package from Software Directions Inc. of Randolph, N.J., 201 584-8466). It has most basic security and encryption features needed by businesses and is especially easy to use. Another program that effectively combines security and encryption, and in a sophisticated way, is Watchdog ($295 from the Fischer International Systems Corporation of Naples, Fla., 813 643-1500).        

                    Softsafe's automatic operation and low cost make it ideal for small businesses and for people in large companies who want security without becoming security experts. Watchdog is the leader in full-scale personal computer security and encryption, providing system administrators with virtually any level of control they want. The Department of Defense is the largest Watchdog customer, a Fischer spokesman said.        

                    Both programs are for machines made by the International Business Machines Corporation, the Compaq Computer Corporation and compatible models. For the Macintosh, an excellent security and encryption program is DiskLock ($189 from Fifth Generation Systems Inc. of Baton Rouge, La., 800 873-4384.)        

                    UNLIKE systems that in effect guard the door to the bank but not the vault itself, these programs lock the vault and disguise the valuables inside as trash. They do this by focusing on the hard disk drive. Anybody with a little computer knowledge can prowl through a hard disk, or copy the equivalent of hundreds of pages of documents onto a single diskette that can be slipped into a pocket. Beginning with the PC-AT introduced by the International Business Machines Corporation in 1983, many personal computers have been equipped with a lock - literally a lock and key - on the front of the machine. When the machine is locked, only the person with the key can open the case or use the keyboard. One drawback is that most people leave the key in the lock or in a nearby desk. A bigger drawback is that if several workers share the machine, any of them can peek into any part of the disk.        

                    The more powerful models of the I.B.M. PS/2 series have three levels of password protection built in: power-on, needed for access to the machine; keyboard, which can lock out unauthorized users once the machine is on, and network, which can block access to other machines. With passwords, only the people who know the magic word can use the system. The drawback is that the password system can be erased by opening the computer's case, disconnecting the battery for 20 minutes and reconnecting it.        

                    Both Watchdog and Softsafe also automate data encryption, so that when a user saves data into a designated directory - it can be a database, spreadsheet, word-processing or other file - it is automatically transformed into the computer equivalent of Sanskrit written backward. With Softsafe, the encrypted files are visible only to the person who created them. Even if eight people have access to an encrypted directory on the hard disk, the authorized user will see only those files he or she ''owns.'' The rest are invisible. Even if the snooper is a power user armed with Norton Utilities or some other program to flush out hidden files, the encryption will make the discovery worthless.        

                    There is also automatic lockout, a feature that allows the user who is going to be away from his machine for some time to remove the data from the screen, put up a blank screen in its place and block access to anyone who does not have a password. This is handy when one has to dash into a meeting and does not want to shut down the machine. Upon return, the user types a password and the data flashes back to life.        

                    One important feature of Watchdog is an audit trail. When this feature is activated, Watchdog keeps track of every action on the system, from the power-on password to reading and writing files. A supervisor can print a report that shows who touched the machine, what they did and when. Software plans to add an audit trail in its next version.        

                    Drawing        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Inv1
