
  




The Composer Carter Burwell and His Oscar Nod for ‘Carol’ - The New York Times


















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Movies|The Composer Carter Burwell and His Oscar Nod for ‘Carol’



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Movies 
The Composer Carter Burwell and His Oscar Nod for ‘Carol’



The Carpetbagger 
By                     
 CARA BUCKLEY
 
FEB. 1, 2016



Inside








Photo






The composer Carter Burwell.

Credit
            Tycho Burwell        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



There was much cheering when the composer Carter Burwell landed his first Oscar nomination this year for his score for Todd Haynes’s midcentury romance, “Carol.” A longtime collaborator with the Coen brothers – he has scored over a dozen of their films, including “Raising Arizona,” “The Big Lebowski” and “No Country For Old Men” – Mr. Burwell had long been thought overdue for academy recognition.







“Carol” was just one of several films released in 2015 that he scored: he also composed the music for “Mr. Holmes,” “Legend” and “Anomalisa,” the Charlie Kaufman film that Mr. Burwell more or less launched. Mr. Burwell called from his home in Amagansett, on Long Island, to discuss scoring a play and other twists in his career. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.Q. How many interviews have you done this season?A. Scores. I haven’t really gone through this process before, through this wringer. It is interesting. I can’t begin to imagine what it’s like for actors. It’s really a regular part of the job, and my heart goes out to them. Fortunately people don’t really want to know what composers think.With “Anomalisa,” you originated the idea of doing it as a play, right?It was right after my second child was born. I didn’t want to do film scores, the schedule was just too brutal, and I was looking for something else to do and thought of setting some interesting text to music. I approached the Coens and Charlie, and they had the ambitious idea of doing one-act plays.So you ended up doing a film score despite yourself.I think it’s safe to say no one working on the play foresaw that it would turn into a movie.With “Carol,” it’s a romance, but their love was also illicit at the time. Did that play into what music you created for it?You can look at the film as simply the story of two people falling in love. The fact that at that time their romance would be unacceptable, or perhaps illegal, isn’t necessarily important, because the act of falling in love always involves risks. Those mysteries, the suspense is always there, the uncertainties about what the other person is thinking, what’s going to happen next.How does the process work? Do you see the script, or the dailies, or must you wait for the final picture?




Oscars 2016
Complete coverage of the movie awards season from our reporters, editors and critics.







                                Chilly, and Boozy, Scenes From Sundance            








                                Giving Sundance Movies a Second Chance            








                                Bluffer’s Guide to the Oscars: Best Supporting Actor            








                                ‘Spotlight’ Takes Top Screen Actors Guild Award            








                                ‘The Birth of a Nation’ Sweeps Top Awards at the Sundance Film Festival            






See More »



Todd sent the script before he went to Cincinnati [where the film was shot], but generally speaking, and specifically with Todd’s movies, it’s not that useful to write until you see the movie. He’s such a visual stylist. So much thought goes into the look of the film. That’s the point when I really start writing.How much of the work happens in front of the screen versus away from the screen, when your unconscious chews away at a film’s themes?Most of the creative part happens in the latter of your situation. I’ll mostly watch the film and go away and sit at the piano and think, “What does this film need? What can I bring to it?” Todd is very musically astute. He trusts me and I trust himHow long does this process take?Generally the rule of thumb is one would always like to have more time. It’s always a rush. In this case, it wasn’t that bad. I had eight weeks to write. Generally it’s six weeks on average. The only film that I wouldn’t have changed anything with is “Miller’s Crossing,” and that was done 25 years ago. I had three months.Are there any scores you wish you could forget?Oh yeah, the child I hate. There are ones I feel less connected to. I’m not going to name names.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















