
  




Tom Hayes Denied Latest Bid to Appeal Libor Conviction - The New York Times






































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





DealBook|Tom Hayes Denied Latest Bid to Appeal Libor Conviction



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement











 



Supported by




Tom Hayes Denied Latest Bid to Appeal Libor Conviction

By CHAD BRAYMARCH 8, 2016


Inside








Photo






Tom Hayes, a former trader at Citigroup and UBS, was convicted for conspiring to manipulate the Libor.

Credit
            Neil Hall/Reuters        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



LONDON — An appeals court on Tuesday denied a request by Tom Hayes, a former trader at Citigroup and UBS, to ask Britain’s highest court to review his conviction in August for conspiring to manipulate a global benchmark interest rate known as Libor.Mr. Hayes, who is imprisoned and serving his sentence, was the first person to go to trial in Britain and to be convicted on criminal charges related to the manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor.In December, the Court of Appeal declined to overturn Mr. Hayes’s conviction, but reduced his sentence to 11 years in prison from an original term of 14 years.On Tuesday, the Court of Appeal refused his request to have the Supreme Court, Britain’s highest court, review the case, a spokesman for the Serious Fraud Office, which brought the criminal case, said on Tuesday.A lawyer for Mr. Hayes did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Tuesday. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









British Regulator Bars Ex-Deutsche Bank Trader Over Libor CaseMARCH 2, 2016











Sixth Ex-Broker Cleared in London Libor TrialJAN. 28, 2016











Court Reduces Ex-Trader’s Sentence in Libor CaseDEC. 21, 2015







The decision makes it much more difficult for Mr. Hayes to challenge his conviction, as criminal cases must be certified by a lower court that there is a point of law of general public importance to be argued on appeal before the Supreme Court. 
Continue reading the main story



                Timeline            

                Tracking the Libor Scandal            

                Abuse of interest rates and the failure to address the problem is one of the most expensive scandals to hit Wall Street since the financial crisis.            








                    OPEN Timeline                




He is expected to ask the Criminal Case Review Commission, which examines miscarriages of justice, to examine his case. The independent body can refer criminal cases back to the appellate court for review.The appeals court decision came more than a month after a jury in London acquitted six former brokers of charges that they helped Mr. Hayes manipulate Libor.A half-decade-long investigation into the manipulation of Libor has led to billions of dollars in fines and has damaged the reputations of some of the world’s biggest banks, including Barclays, the Royal Bank of Scotland and UBS.A third trial in London of others accused of manipulating Libor is expected to begin this year.The first trial in the United States of people accused of rigging Libor ended in the conviction in November of two former London-based traders.The Serious Fraud Office had accused Mr. Hayes of being a ringleader among more than a dozen traders in what authorities said was a brazen scheme to manipulate Libor, which helps determine the borrowing costs for trillions of dollars in loans. He was accused of misconduct engaged in from 2006 to 2010.Mr. Hayes’s lawyers had argued that he was open about his conduct and did not believe at the time that he was acting dishonestly.To set Libor and other rates, banks submit the rates at which they would be prepared to lend money to one another, on an unsecured basis, in various currencies and at varying maturities.The evidence against Mr. Hayes included 82 hours of voluntary testimony that prosecutors said he provided to the Serious Fraud Office over five months. The authorities said he admitted to rigging rates and provided testimony against many former friends and colleagues, including his half brother.Mr. Hayes testified during the trial that he decided to cooperate with British authorities because he feared being extradited to the United States, where he is also facing criminal charges, and wanted to remain close to his wife and child.After providing the voluntary testimony to British authorities, Mr. Hayes stopped cooperating with prosecutors in 2013 and chose to plead not guilty to the charges in Britain.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















