



Too Many People, Too Little Support, Polar Scientists Say - NYTimes.com






























































.NYT5Style .masthead-tools #bar1-button  {
    display: inline;
    vertical-align: top;
}
#bar1-button {
    border:none;
    position: relative;
}
.bar1_hover {
    opacity: 0;
}
.sub_small_hide {
    display: none;
}
#bar1-button > a {
    -moz-box-sizing: border-box;
    background-color: #6288A5;
    border: 1px solid #4D7B9F;
    border-radius: 3px;
    color: #fff !important;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 1em;
    font-weight: bold;
    font-family: nyt-franklin,nyt-franklin-1,'Helvetica Neue',Arial,sans-serif;
    padding: 7px 10px 6px;
    text-transform: uppercase;
    text-decoration: none;
}
#bar1-button > a:hover {
    background-color: #326891;
    border: 1px solid #265E8B;
    text-decoration: none;
}

/* EXCLUDING NYT4 INTERACTIVES */
#interactiveABC #bar1-button {
   display: none;
}


Subscribe Now


Subscribe

campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/science, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/science, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global


NYTD.loadEditionToggle();

window.setTimeout(function() {
  var login = document.getElementById('memberToolsLogin');
  if (login) {
    login.href += "?URI=" + window.location.href;
  }
}, 0)







Search All NYTimes.com










Science





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
EnvironmentSpace & Cosmos 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








Too Many People, Too Little Support, Polar Scientists Say


By MALCOLM W. BROWNE


Published: February 7, 1995









McMURDO STATION, Antarctica— 
                    DR. NIKOLAI A. MAKAROV, a Russian scientist working at the United States South Pole Station, switched on his powerful radar apparatus last month, hoping to study the upper atmosphere. Instead, he evoked cries of anguish from American scientists, engineers and pilots, and fears of an international crisis.        

                    Dr. Makarov's quadrupole radar equipment, built in Russia for an experiment supervised by the University of Colorado in Boulder, was to probe wind patterns at very high altitudes over the South Pole during the winter. The Russian radar points up and its beam is reflected back to earth from fine meteor particles suspended in the atmosphere at high altitudes.        

                    But Dr. Makarov's experiment went awry, partly for want of advance planning and organization of the myriad scientific programs that are proliferating in Antarctica.        

                    Just weeks before Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station was scheduled to be sealed off from the outer world with the onset of the polar winter, American officials discovered that the power, frequencies and "side lobe" radio leakage from Dr. Makarov's apparatus threatened to disrupt navigation equipment on approaching aircraft and violently skew observations by the South Pole's arsenal of microwave and submillimeter-wave astronomical telescopes. He was told that his equipment could not be used until its interference effects were eliminated and that he probably could not spend the winter.        

                    With scarcely more than one week to remedy the situation before Dr. Makarov would have been evicted from the station, he and American officials devised a schedule for conducting experiments that they hope will eliminate the feared conflicts. Dr. Makarov will stay, but it was a close call that might have chilled Russian-American scientific relations.        

                    Many American scientists sympathized with Dr. Makarov.        

                    "The National Science Foundation should have checked his equipment before agreeing to have it shipped from Russia to the South Pole," an American scientist said. "But that's the way things are these days. The N.S.F. is trying to squeeze too much science out of a budget that provides too little for supporting resources." The scientist, whose research is supported by the Federal Government, spoke on condition of anonymity.        

                    Many American scientists in Antarctica share a view that the science foundation is overtaxing its limited resources and that the agency will soon have to reduce the number of scientific programs it supports here, using some system to eliminate the less worthy research.        

                    Dr. Cornelius Sullivan, a scientist who has spent many research seasons in Antarctica and who for the last two years has headed the N.S.F.'s polar programs, sympathizes with the problems faced by field scientists and visits Antarctica frequently to stay in touch with them. But he acknowledges that there are policies that he can do nothing about and that hamper his efforts to improve matters.        

                    One resource that has been sorely taxed is summertime housing for 140 men and women at South Pole Station and about 1,000 people at McMurdo Station. The third United States year-round Antarctic base, Palmer Station on the Antarctic Peninsula, is smaller and even more cramped.        

                    American physicists, biologists, atmospheric scientists and others in Antarctica are used to cramped quarters, but in the new barracks buildings at McMurdo Station, a single small room is commonly shared during the peak summer season in December and January by up to six scientists, many of whom work at odd hours and wake each other up as they enter or leave. (During the winter months, when the Antarctic population is reduced by about 90 percent, each man and woman is given a private room.)        

                    Privacy is fast disappearing at American stations in Antarctica. The traditional Jamesway hut, a long, semicyclindrical structure formed by a double layer of insulating canvas, has been a staple of Antarctic life since the 1950's. The Jamesway in its present form has cubicles providing almost no room except for a bed, but it at least offers curtained privacy, a lamp, and a small wooden shelf.        

                    "We asked scientists working in Antarctica what they most wanted as habitats," said Dr. Robert S. Cunningham, who supervises station compliance with environmental protection rules. "What they wanted was privacy, more than any other consideration."        

                    And yet the latest new dormitory building at the South Pole diminishes rather than increases privacy. Erected on stilts to prevent the accumulation of drifting snow, and incorporating such innovations as solar heating panels and indoor toilets and plumbing, the new dormitory has rooms where even senior scientists and executives are packed into upper and lower berths without privacy curtains.        

                    To the regret of many, the venerable Jamesway hut, which houses most residents of South Pole Station during the busy summer season, is no longer manufactured, and has been slated for retirement. To replace it, the N.S.F. is testing a semicylindrical hut made of a double layer of Fiberglas filled with foam insulating plastic, in which occupants would have a little privacy.        







1

2


Next Page >




 














 



















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback







var dcsvid = "";
var regstatus = "non-registered";





campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/science, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/science, position: Inv1
