
  




T.S.A. Calls for Armed Guards at Airport Checkpoints - The New York Times


































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|T.S.A. Calls for Armed Guards at Airport Checkpoints



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1pyRylh




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
T.S.A. Calls for Armed Guards at Airport Checkpoints

By RON NIXONMARCH 26, 2014



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Police officers patrolling Los Angeles International Airport. A shooting there last year prompted a T.S.A. report on security.

Credit
            Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images        


WASHINGTON —  The Transportation Security Administration is recommending that armed personnel be present at airport checkpoints during peak hours of passenger traffic, though airports would be able to tailor the security to their specific needs, according to a report released on Wednesday.The T.S.A.’s report also suggests that security be increased at ticket counters and other areas in airports where passengers often gather. And it recommends mandatory training for all T.S.A. employees on how to respond to a shooting; twice-yearly evacuation drills; and the installation of panic buttons at airports that do not have them — and routine testing of such alerts.The report, which was first obtained by The Associated Press, was in response to a shooting last year at Los Angeles International Airport in which a worker was killed.The report’s recommendations are limited in scope. They would not require airports to hire new officers, only to reassign those who are already on duty, concentrating them at checkpoints and ticket counters during peak periods of passenger arrivals and departures.The report recommends that, because of jurisdictional issues, airport police officers, not T.S.A. officers, should provide the armed security at checkpoints.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

But the T.S.A. said that its Visible Intermodal Prevention and Response squads would also increase the number of their airport patrols. The agency created the special units in 2005 to perform random security sweeps aimed at preventing terrorist attacks.“The report released today outlines the actions T.S.A. took immediately following the shooting and new procedures to enhance the safety and security of T.S.A. employees nationwide, especially those who work on the front lines each and every day to protect the traveling public,” the agency’s administrator, John S. Pistole, said in a statement.Mr. Pistole is scheduled to present the report to Congress on Friday when he testifies at a field hearing of the House Committee on Homeland Security in Los Angeles.Gerardo I. Hernandez, a T.S.A. officer, was killed in the Los Angeles shooting. He was the first officer at the agency — which was created two months after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 — to die in the line of duty.Paul A. Ciancia, 24, an unemployed mechanic, has been charged in the shooting. Law enforcement officials said the gunman targeted T.S.A. workers, although his motives were unclear. A passenger and two other law enforcement officials were injured in the shooting, and Mr. Ciancia was wounded. A federal grand jury indicted him in December on 11 charges, including murder and attempted murder. He is being held without bail at a detention center in San Bernardino County.Jon Adler, president of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, which represents more than 25,000 federal officers, including T.S.A. workers, said his group supported the report’s recommendations.Mr. Adler said his association had long suggested that armed officers be present at security checkpoints and other areas of airports that have high passenger traffic.“This is a common-sense thing to do,” he said. “You can’t bring a government pen to a gunfight.”

A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2014, on page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: T.S.A. Calls for Armed Guards at Airport Security.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















