
  




T.S.A.’s PreCheck Program Gives V.I.P. Treatment Through Security - The New York Times

































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Business Day|V.I.P. Treatment Eases the Way Through Security



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go











Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Business Day 
V.I.P. Treatment Eases the Way Through Security

By JOE SHARKEYMAY 2, 2012



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








BIG spenders get special treatment — the world was ever thus. And those who spend the most money also receive increasingly preferential treatment at airport security.Desperate to shore up shaky profitability, many airlines offer additional benefits, including elite access to security lanes, to the customers who generate the most revenue — that is, their top-tier business travelers. At the same time, under public pressure, the Transportation Security Administration is retooling its much-disparaged security procedures to spend less effort focusing on travelers with profiles indicating that they’re probably not great security risks — that is, the most frequent fliers.As a result, airlines are offering their biggest spenders additional V.I.P. benefits that include expedited access to security. And the T.S.A. is now allowing some to pass through security checkpoints without the indignity of a pat-down or of having to remove shoes and belts or laptops from their cases.Watching airport security lines with V.I.P.’s being waved on while hoi polloi keep their humble places, one might even contemplate, as a recent headline in Salon did, “How the Rich Took Over Airport Security.”But that may overstate things a bit. Elite security access usually consists of special lanes managed by airlines to allow high-status fliers to go to the head of the line for T.S.A. screening. Everyone goes through the same security procedures, regardless of status.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

But PreCheck, a new T.S.A. program, goes much further. Those who qualify are chosen from the small ranks of those who spend the most on an airline, and do, in fact, avoid pat-downs and other rigmarole in the security process.“I had one person tell me, ‘It makes travel feel like it’s pre-9-11,’ ” Joseph Bates, the senior research director at the Global Business Travel Association, said of the overwhelmingly positive reactions that he had heard from those invited to use PreCheck. Continue reading the main story







Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





PreCheck is the centerpiece of the T.S.A.’s new “risk-based” security initiative. Its fundamental principal is that travelers whose backgrounds and habits are best known to the government and the airlines pose a far less potential threat to safety than occasional travelers about whom far less is known.Whatever the rationale, however, the appearances disturb some. “It’s stratifying consumers by class and wealth, because the people who travel a lot usually have higher incomes,” said Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate and a frequent business traveler.The T.S.A. introduced PreCheck last fall. The program is now in operation at special lanes at 13 airports, with three participating airlines, Delta, American and Alaska. The airlines quietly invite “select members of their frequent-flier programs,” says the T.S.A., which plans to have PreCheck lanes at about three dozen airports by the end of this year, and is in discussions with additional airlines about participating.The program is based on the idea that a known traveler poses a lower security risk. With the flier’s permission, the airline shares a chosen customer’s personal data with the T.S.A., which then decides whether that person will get expedited security. “We started with the elite frequent fliers because we know the most about them,” said John S. Pistole, the T.S.A. administrator.More than 820,000 travelers have received expedited security since the start of the program. PreCheck is also open to travelers who are enrolled in government trusted-traveler security programs like Global Entry, which provides international travelers with expedited re-entry and the ability to avoid long lines at United States Customs and Immigration checkpoints.“The program is sort of still in its infancy,” said Mr. Bates at the business travel trade group. He supports expanding PreCheck into the general pool of frequent fliers, saying it “allows you to spend more of your resources on the folks you don’t know anything about, rather than subjecting everybody to the exact same procedures.”
Photo






Delta began its Sky Priority program in 2010.

Credit
            Rich Addicks for The New York Times        


Mr. Pistole, incidentally, readily acknowledges that a trusted traveler program like PreCheck isn’t foolproof. A would-be terrorist with high-level airline status and with no previous suspicious behavioral patterns could potentially qualify, he conceded. He added that PreCheck users were subject to random full-scale inspections.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Though airlines and airports have long set aside priority lanes for everyday elite-status travelers, some airlines have added new levels of access for their most valuable customers.In November, for example, American Airlines introduced an elite service called Flagship Check-in at Los Angeles International Airport, with plans to expand it to other airports.The program, American said, “provides the exclusivity and seamless service that our high-end customers value.” Eligible travelers, including those flying on first-class tickets, as well as customers who hold American’s most exalted status rank, ConciergeKey, use a private curbside entrance to the terminal, where they are greeted by customer-service representatives. They also receive “immediate access to a designated premium security line” providing “expedited access through security checkpoints,” American says.That service is similar to one introduced in 2010 by Delta Air Lines called Sky Priority, described as providing “privileged access through security checkpoints” at select airports. This year, Sky Priority was expanded throughout SkyTeam, the global airline alliance that includes Delta. Mr. Pistole said he hoped that PreCheck would prove itself and allow for expansion next year. And a company called Alclear hopes to eventually become part of that expansion.Alclear operates private-access lanes under the brand name Clear at two partner airports where members, who pay $179 a year, can bypass regular security queues. Clear members pass background reviews and receive identification cards encoded with their iris scan and other biometric data. But after getting to the head of the line and having their IDs verified, Clear members still head into the same security checkpoints as everyone else.“When we bought Clear we looked like contrarians,” said the chief executive, Caryn Seidman-Becker. A previous incarnation of Clear went bankrupt in 2009, with locations in about 18 airports — but without the support of the T.S.A.The company’s new owners, bolstered by strong support from the nation’s airports, say they hope to eventually integrate Clear’s technology and membership base of about 200,000 into the PreCheck program in a partnership with the T.S.A. The agency said only that it was reviewing such proposals.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“I think where administrator Pistole is going, we no longer look so much like contrarians,” Ms. Seidman-Becker said. “I think we can work closely with them to make PreCheck more scalable for wider use and more effective.”At the nation’s 450 commercial airports where the airlines operate, there may be ways to get to the head of the line faster, but there really is no legitimate way around the T.S.A.That isn’t the case in the world of private aviation, however. There are about 4,000 so-called general aviation airports in the United States, and the bigger ones have luxurious private terminals for use by those with access to private aircraft, including business jets.There are no T.S.A. checkpoints to navigate at these private airports. Instead, the business aviation industry and aircraft owners maintain their own security standards, partly based on the idea that aboard a private plane, pilots personally know their passengers. On corporate jets, “you’ll find that the security they’ve implemented is equivalent to and at times exceeds what you would find at a commercial airport for the airlines,” said Douglas Carr, vice president for security and regulation at the National Business Aviation Association.But those who favor more federal security oversight of business aviation note that numbers and size of private aircraft are growing. In 2001 there were 7,787 private jets operating in the United States; last year, there were 11,484, the General Aviation Manufacturers Association says.Mr. Nader, who said he flies coach and declines special treatment, thinks that security privileges of all sorts are a bad idea for a democratic society. For one thing, he says, setting aside special-access lanes “takes up space” that should be available to everyone.For another, he added, waving the select few through with less scrutiny was bad politics.“The only thing that has developed tolerance for this mass nonsense that is going on at the T.S.A. checkpoints is that everybody is supposed to be exposed to it,” he said. “Once that is shattered there is going to be a lot of resentment among those who watch others zip through while we wait and nudge forward and get shouted at to take our shoes off.”

A version of this article appears in print on May 3, 2012, on page F7 of the New York edition with the headline: V.I.P. Treatment Eases the Way Through Security.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















