
  




Two LulzSec Hackers Plead Guilty in Britain - The New York Times






























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|Two LulzSec Hackers Plead Guilty in Britain



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/LMqVaI




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
Two LulzSec Hackers Plead Guilty in Britain

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJUNE 25, 2012



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








LONDON (AP) — Two British hackers linked to the notorious Lulz Security group pleaded guilty on Monday to several computer crimes, the latest blow against online criminals whose exploits have grabbed headlines and embarrassed governments around the world.The hackers, Ryan Cleary, 20, and Jake Davis, 19, pleaded guilty to conspiring with other members of LulzSec to attack government, media and law enforcement Web sites last year, according to Gryff Waldron, an official at Southwark Crown Court in London.LulzSec, an offshoot of the loose-knit hacker movement known as Anonymous, has claimed responsibility for assaults on sites run by the Central Intelligence Agency and the Public Broadcasting Service in the United States, and the media mogul Rupert Murdoch’s News International. Other targets included Nintendo, Sony, the National Health Service in Britain and the Arizona state police.Mr. Waldron said two other defendants — Ryan Ackroyd, 25, and an unnamed 17-year-old — had pleaded not guilty to the same charges and would face trial in April 2013.All four defendants have denied charges of encouraging or assisting others to commit computer offenses and fraud. Mr. Waldron said British prosecutors were still weighing whether to take Mr. Cleary and Mr. Davis to court on the remaining charges.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

LulzSec, whose name draws on Internet slang for “laugh out loud,” shot to prominence in mid-2011 with an eye-catching attack on PBS, whose Web site it defaced with an article claiming that the late rapper Tupac Shakur had been found alive in New Zealand.It was an opening shot in what became several months of data theft, online vandalism and denial-of-service attacks, which try to swamp Web sites with excess traffic.The hackers repeatedly humbled law enforcement — stealing data from InfraGard, a partner organization of the F.B.I.; briefly jamming the Web site of the Serious Organized Crime Agency of Britain; and publishing a large cache of e-mails from the Arizona Department of Public Safety.The spree focused attention on Anonymous, a loose-knit collection of activists — many of whom have taken on governments, officials or corporations over a variety of grievances.Members of LulzSec and its reputed leader, known as Sabu, were some of the best known in the movement. But in March, officials in the United States unmasked Sabu as an F.B.I. informant named Hector Xavier Monsegur, and officials on both sides of the Atlantic arrested roughly half a dozen people who were suspected of collaborating.

A version of this article appears in print on June 26, 2012, on page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Two British Men Admit Role In Series of Computer Attacks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















