
  




Mine Kills Civilians as Fighting Heats Up in Eastern Ukraine - The New York Times








































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Europe|Mine Kills Civilians as Fighting Heats Up in Eastern Ukraine



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1RqTLBe




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Europe 
Mine Kills Civilians as Fighting Heats Up in Eastern Ukraine

By ALISA SOPOVAFEB. 10, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






The wreckage of a minivan that struck a land mine Wednesday in a field near a checkpoint outside Donetsk, in eastern Ukraine.

Credit
            Alexander Ermochenko/European Pressphoto Agency        


DONETSK, Ukraine —  Fighting that had been quiet for several months between Russia-backed insurgents and government forces has picked up in eastern Ukraine, punctuated by regular artillery shelling, the use of land mines and other tactics that have put civilians at risk.In the most recent fatal episode, a minivan driver cutting through a field to avoid stalled traffic at a checkpoint set off an anti-tank mine. The vehicle was destroyed and all four occupants were killed.A week earlier, intense mortar fire on Ukrainian positions led the army to close the Zaytsevo checkpoint, near the city of Donetsk, citing safety concerns for the civilians trying to cross there.Zaytsevo is one of four checkpoints that cross the line of control in eastern Ukraine. The minivan that hit the mine was near the Marinka checkpoint, also near Donetsk, which became choked with long lines after the Zaytsevo crossing was closed.It was unclear which side was responsible, but Ukrainian forces have been criticized by European monitors for planting land mines near border checkpoints.







Today’s Headlines: European Morning
Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the European morning.





 



“It sounded as if a shell landed very close,” said another minivan driver who gave only his first name, Artyom. He added that the force of the explosion blew out windows in vehicles waiting at the checkpoint. Three people died immediately, according to reports, and a fourth in a hospital. “I looked in the rearview mirror and saw a total mess behind me,” Artyom said. “It was hard even to see what was left of the bus.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Before the mine explosion, Ukrainian officials had defended their decision to close the Zaytsevo checkpoint, saying the long lines were better than the danger of artillery shelling.“We are being criticized for closing the checkpoint, but if we put on the scales inconvenience and people’s safety, we decided that human life is more important,” Pavlo Zhebrivsky, the governor of Donetsk region, said on Tuesday.The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe emphasized in a report released on Saturday that it “continued to observe the presence of mines,” and that observers had seen eight wire-triggered antitank mines near the Marinka checkpoint.In September, Ukraine and the two self-declared separatist states, the Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics, committed again to a cease-fire that was signed in February 2015 in Minsk, the capital of Belarus. After the accord was signed, fighting waned for a time.But the political solution, which calls for Ukraine to change its Constitution and allow local autonomy, and for rebels to surrender control of the border with Russia and allow elections under Ukrainian law, has not followed.

A version of this article appears in print on February 11, 2016, on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Fighting Heats Up in Ukraine.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










NATO to Expand Military Presence in Europe to Deter Russians
FEB. 10, 2016













Russian Intervention in Syrian War Has Sharply Reduced U.S. Options
FEB. 10, 2016
























Related Coverage







NATO to Expand Military Presence in Europe to Deter Russians
FEB. 10, 2016













Russian Intervention in Syrian War Has Sharply Reduced U.S. Options
FEB. 10, 2016













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















