
  




U.N. Rights Chief Says Unlocking Gunman’s iPhone Could Open ‘Pandora’s Box’ - The New York Times























































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|U.N. Rights Chief Says Unlocking Gunman’s iPhone Could Open ‘Pandora’s Box’



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QxhvPO




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
U.N. Rights Chief Says Unlocking Gunman’s iPhone Could Open ‘Pandora’s Box’

By NICK CUMMING-BRUCEMARCH 4, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Video

U.N. Rights Chief on Apple Case


Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, warned that forcing Apple to unlock an encrypted iPhone could “risk unlocking a Pandora’s box.”

                    By REUTERS on                                                                Publish Date March 4, 2016.
                                    

                                            Photo by Denis Balibouse/Reuters.
                                    
Watch in Times Video »







embed










GENEVA — The top human rights official at the United Nations warned the United States authorities on Friday that their efforts to force Apple to unlock an iPhone belonging to a gunman risked helping authoritarian governments and jeopardizing the security of millions around the world.The remarks by Zeid Ra’ad al-Hussein, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, came as American investigators continued to press Apple to write software to help them gain access to an iPhone used by one of the gunmen in a shooting in San Bernardino, Calif., in December. Though the F.B.I. says it is a one-time request, Apple and others have raised concerns that the case could set a precedent and could force technology firms to install so-called back doors in devices, potentially invading customer privacy.Mr. al-Hussein said that American law enforcement agencies, in trying to break the encryption protecting one phone, “risk unlocking a Pandora’s box,” and that there were “extremely damaging implications” for the rights of many millions of people, with possible effects on their physical and financial security.“A successful case against Apple in the U.S. will set a precedent that may make it impossible for Apple or any other major international I.T. company to safeguard their clients’ privacy anywhere in the world,” Mr. al-Hussein said in a statement. “It is potentially a gift to authoritarian regimes, as well as to criminal hackers.”Last month, a federal magistrate judge ordered Apple to bypass security functions on the iPhone used by Syed Rizwan Farook, one of two gunmen in the San Bernardino shooting, and the F.B.I. has said it wants Apple to write software that would give them access to the device.


            Related Coverage        









Apple has resisted the order on the grounds that it violates the company’s right to due process and that forcing it to write the software tramples on First Amendment rights. After some hesitation, many of the technology industry’s biggest names, including Amazon, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Snapchat and Yahoo, have filed court briefs supporting Apple and challenging the legal foundations of the government’s case.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The high commissioner, who usually avoids taking positions aligned with commercial interests, said he felt strongly that American officials needed to weigh the uncertain benefits of gaining access to one phone against the broader effects of breaching personal security.“In essence, what we have here is an issue of proportionality: In order to possibly — but by no means certainly — gain extra information about the dreadful crime committed by Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife in San Bernardino, we may end up enabling a multitude of other crimes all across the world, including in the United States,” he said.The F.B.I. deserves full support in its investigation into the San Bernardino killings, Mr. al-Hussein said, but “this case is not about a company and its supporters — seeking to protect criminals and terrorists — it is about where a key red line necessary to safeguard all of us from criminals and repression should be set.”The encryption debate was “too focused on one side of the security coin, in particular its potential use for criminal purposes in times of terrorism,” Mr. al-Hussein said. “The other side of the security coin is that weakening encryption protections may bring even bigger dangers to national and international security.”The high commissioner’s intervention builds on growing awareness and concern among human rights experts about the crucial role of encryption for safeguarding freedom of speech and of opinion.“Encryption and anonymity, separately or together, create a zone of privacy to protect opinion and belief,” David Kaye, a United Nations expert on freedom of expression, said in a report to the United Nations Human Rights Council last year, addressing ways to shield individuals from scrutiny in hostile political, social, religious and legal environments. Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










Apple Is Rolling Up Backers in iPhone Privacy Fight Against F.B.I.
MARCH 3, 2016









Defense Secretary Takes Position Against a Data ‘Back Door’
MARCH 2, 2016












BITS 

Debate Over Privacy Finds Little Agreement
MARCH 2, 2016


























Conversation Starters
Provocative looks at pressing issues.








                                Donald Trump Isn’t Alone in Exploiting the Word ‘University’            
MAR 21








                                A Reconsideration of Children and Screen Time            
MAR 21








                                Amid a Graying Fleet of Nuclear Plants, a Hunt for Solutions            
MAR 21








                                Empathy May Be Overrated in an Election, and in a Leader            
MAR 21








                                John Roberts Criticized Supreme Court Confirmation Process, Before There Was a Vacancy            
MAR 21






See More »








Related Coverage







Apple Is Rolling Up Backers in iPhone Privacy Fight Against F.B.I.
MARCH 3, 2016













Defense Secretary Takes Position Against a Data ‘Back Door’
MARCH 2, 2016








BITS 

Debate Over Privacy Finds Little Agreement
MARCH 2, 2016













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















