
  




U.N.C. Football Player Who Ended Up Homeless Had C.T.E. - The New York Times












































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





College Football|U.N.C. Football Player Who Ended Up Homeless Had C.T.E.



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/21WhJed




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



College Football 
U.N.C. Football Player Who Ended Up Homeless Had C.T.E.



Sports of The Times 
By                     
 JULIET MACUR
 
MARCH 8, 2016



Inside








Photo






Once a 6-foot-5, 287-pound left tackle at the University of North Carolina, Ryan Hoffman was struggling on the streets of Lakeland, Fla., in January 2015.

Credit
            Ángel Franco/The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



For so long, Ryan Hoffman, a former college football player I wrote about last year, had the same explanation for his inability to get his life on track.“Something is wrong with my brain,” said Hoffman, a former offensive lineman at the University of North Carolina who ended up a panhandler, homeless, penniless and dependent on drugs and alcohol.Last week, his family learned that Hoffman, who was 41 when he died in November, was right.Researchers at Boston University and the Concussion Legacy Foundation on Friday notified Hoffman’s family that an analysis of his brain showed evidence of C.T.E., or chronic traumatic encephalopathy, the degenerative brain disease believed to be caused by repeated hits to the head.For the Hoffmans, it was the answer to the mystery of Ryan Hoffman’s continuing problems, which included jail time and joblessness — troubles that defined his life after a successful college career on a team ranked in the top 10. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Sports of The Times: Ryan Hoffman, a U.N.C. Football Player Two Decades Ago, Is Now HomelessMARCH 5, 2015











Sports of The Times: Homeless Former U.N.C. Player Balks at Efforts to Help HimMARCH 11, 2015











Sports of The Times: Homeless and Mentally Ill, a Former College Lineman Dies on the StreetDEC. 2, 2015







“I wanted to know exactly what happened to my brother, and I just knew football did it,” his sister, Kira Soto, told me Monday in a phone call as she began to cry. “I’ve been looking into this for 15 years and defended him when people said it was just the drugs and judged him for something he couldn’t help, something that he struggled with. Well, we know now. We know.”
Photo






Kira Soto gave the eulogy for Hoffman, her brother, in December in Bunnell, Fla.

Credit
            Ángel Franco/The New York Times        


Dr. Ann McKee, the chief of neuropathology at the V.A. Boston Healthcare System and professor of neurology and pathology at Boston University School of Medicine, examined Hoffman’s brain and told me he had Stage 2 C.T.E., on her scale of 0 to 4. It was the same severity found in the brain of Tyler Sash, the former Giants safety who in September died of an accidental drug overdose, at 27, and in the brain of Junior Seau, who shot and killed himself in 2012.
Continue reading the main story







Sports Newsletter
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.













Conversation Starters
Provocative looks at pressing issues.







                                In San Francisco and Rooting for a Tech Comeuppance            
MAR 8








                                Penny Pritzker on the Privacy Shield Pact With Europe            
MAR 8








                                Deep Rifts Among Israeli Jews Are Found in Religion Survey            
MAR 8








                                Fox News Forum May Signal Thaw Between Democrats and Network            
MAR 8








                                Don’t Post About Me on Social Media, Children Say            
MAR 8






See More »



Dr. McKee said that Stage 2 C.T.E. can be especially symptomatic, causing problems like depression, short-term memory loss, lack of impulse control, irritability and mood swings, and that some of those symptoms could be confused with mental illness. Last year, Hoffman told me that he had received diagnoses of various mental illnesses, including manic depression, but that medications never seemed to help.Hoffman rode his bike into oncoming traffic, on a poorly lighted road in Haines City, Fla., in November. He was hit by a car, head on, and died on the way to the hospital. His mother, Irene Hoffman, said she was certain that he did not kill himself on purpose.Brian J. McNulty, the Haines City assistant police chief, said on Monday that the investigation into Hoffman’s accident was still incomplete because Hoffman’s full autopsy — including the toxicology reports that go with it — was not yet available.


Email: juliet@nytimes.com







What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















