
  




United States Wants to Attract Hackers to Public Sector - The New York Times





































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|Luring Young Web Warriors Is Priority. It’s Also a Game.



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/X6uZfo




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
Luring Young Web Warriors Is Priority. It’s Also a Game.

By NICOLE PERLROTHMARCH 24, 2013



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Virginia high school students competed in a digital defense simulation at the Virginia Governor’s Cup Cyber Challenge at George Mason University.

Credit
            Mary Newman        


WASHINGTON — In the eighth grade, Arlan Jaska figured out how to write a simple script that could switch his keyboard’s Caps Lock key on and off 6,000 times a minute. When friends weren’t looking, he slipped his program onto their computers. It was all fun and games until the program spread to his middle school.“They called my parents and told my dad I was hacking their computers,” Mr. Jaska, 17 years old, recalled. He was grounded and got detention. And he is just the type the Department of Homeland Security is looking for.The secretary of that agency, Janet Napolitano, knows she has a problem that will only worsen. Foreign hackers have been attacking her agency’s computer systems. They have also been busy trying to siphon the nation’s wealth and steal valuable trade secrets. And they have begun probing the nation’s infrastructure — the power grid, and water and transportation systems.So she needs her own hackers — 600, the agency estimates. But potential recruits with the right skills have too often been heading for business, and those who do choose government work often go to the National Security Agency, where they work on offensive digital strategies. At Homeland Security, the emphasis is on keeping hackers out, or playing defense.“We have to show them how cool and exciting this is,” said Ed Skoudis, one of the nation’s top computer security trainers. “And we have to show them that applying these skills to the public sector is important.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

One answer? Start young, and make it a game, even a contest.This month, Mr. Jaska and his classmate Collin Berman took top spots at the Virginia Governor’s Cup Cyber Challenge, a veritable smackdown of hacking for high school students that was the brainchild of Alan Paller, a security expert, and others in the field.With military exercises like NetWars, the competition, the first in a series, had more the feel of a video game. Mr. Paller helped create Cyber Aces, the nonprofit group that was host of the competition, to help Homeland Security, and likens the agency’s need for hackers to the shortage of fighter pilots during World War II. Continue reading the main story







Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





The job calls for a certain maverick attitude. “I like to break things,” Mr. Berman, 18, said. “I always want to know, ‘How can I change this so it does something else?’ ”It’s a far different pursuit — and a higher-minded one, enlightened hackers will say — than simply defacing Web sites.“You want people who ask: How do things work? But the very best ones turn it around,” said Mr. Paller, director of research at the SANS Institute, a computer security training organization.It’s no coincidence that the idea of using competitions came, in part, from China, where the People’s Liberation Army runs challenges every spring to identify its next generation of digital warriors.Tan Dailin, a graduate student, won several of the events in 2005. Soon afterward he put his skills to work and was caught breaking into the Pentagon’s network and sending reams of documents back to servers in China.“We have no program like that in the United States — nothing,” Mr. Paller said. “No one is even teaching this in schools. If we don’t solve this problem, we’re in trouble.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

At Northern Virginia’s acclaimed Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology, which both Mr. Jaska and Mr. Berman attend, there are five computer science teachers, but none focused on security.When eight students expressed interest in starting a security club, they had to persuade a Raytheon employee to meet with them once a week. (One idea for a name, the Hacking Club, didn’t last.“We don’t want people who are going to go around defacing sites,” Mr. Berman said. They recently rebranded from the Cybersecurity Club to the Computer Security Club. The group dropped the “Cyber” because “it sounds like you’re trying to be cool but you’re not,” clarified Mr. Jaska.)Mr. Jaska and Mr. Berman heard about the Virginia competition through their school. To qualify, they had to identify bad passwords and clean up security settings — a long way from a Caps Lock program.Some 700 students from 110 Virginia high schools applied, but only 40, including Mr. Jaska and Mr. Berman, made the cut.So, three weeks ago, the pair traveled to the Governor’s Cup Cyber Challenge at George Mason University.There, they found something they rarely encounter in high school — a thriving community of like-minded teenagers, the best and brightest of a highly specialized task.“For some of the kids, who tended to be a little bit loners, this was the first time they had a peer group,” Mr. Paller said. “They were having excited conversations about arcane technical issues — something they never get to do — and their parents exalted in it.”

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The students faced the same five-level test that the military uses to test its own security experts. They earned points for cracking passwords, flagging vulnerabilities and breaking into a Web site administrator’s account where, had they changed any settings or defaced a site, they would have been eliminated. Their scores were displayed in real time on a leader board.After several hours, the winners were announced. A third of the students had made it to Level 3 — a level that Rear Adm. Gib Godwin, chairman of the Governor’s Cup, said typically requires someone with seven to 10 years of experience to achieve. Mr. Jaska won, earning a $5,000 scholarship. Mr. Berman won $1,500 for third place.The idea for such competitions is nothing new. For years, a hacking conference called DefCon has hosted games like Capture the Flag in which teams earn points for hacking into each other’s computers. The Air Force started a Cyber Patriot competition in which hackers defend against a “Red Team” trying to steal data. And the Defense Department has its own Digital Forensics Challenge. But none of these was meant for individual high school students.“The goal is to create a continuum, similar to the way kids go to junior high, high school, college and get their Ph.D.,” Admiral Godwin said. “We want to create the same flow for kids in the cyber domain.”This summer, Mr. Jaska is hoping to be an intern at Northrop Grumman. Mr. Berman is considering an internship at Homeland Security. But Ms. Napolitano still has some convincing to do.But asked about their dream job, both said they wanted to work in the private sector. “The problem with going into the government is you’re going to make a lot less,” said Mr. Berman.“Everything’s slower, there’s budget cuts and bureaucracy everywhere and you can’t talk about what you do,” Mr. Jaska added. “It just doesn’t seem like as much fun.”

 Correction: April 1, 2013  
Because of an editing error, an article last Monday about efforts to identify online security talent through competitions for high school hackers misstated the availability of such contests for such students. Cybersecurity competitions for teams of high school students are sponsored by the Defense Department’s Digital Forensics Challenge, the Air Force Association and other cybersecurity organizations; it is not the case that no contests are available for high school students to face off against each other.
  



A version of this article appears in print on March 25, 2013, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Luring Young Web Warriors Is a U.S. Priority. It’s Also a Game.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story



















What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















