
  




U.S. Expands Restrictions on Visa-Waiver Program for Visitors - The New York Times












































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|U.S. Expands Restrictions on Visa-Waiver Program for Visitors



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QndS4v




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
U.S. Expands Restrictions on Visa-Waiver Program for Visitors

By RON NIXONFEB. 18, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Representative Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas and the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, speaks at a hearing last week.

Credit
            Gabriella Demczuk/Getty Images        


WASHINGTON —  The Department of Homeland Security on Thursday added three countries to a growing list that would prohibit people who have visited those nations in the past five years from entering the United States without a visa.The new countries are Libya, Somalia and Yemen. The department indicated that other nations could be added.The Obama administration previously announced changes to the visa-waiver program that would make it harder for travelers to enter the United States from Europe if they had dual citizenship from Iran, Iraq, Sudan or Syria, or had visited one of those countries in the last five years. The restrictions announced on Thursday would not apply to those with dual citizenship in Libya, Somalia or Yemen, the agency said.The changes to the visa-waiver program come after the terrorist attacks in Paris on Nov. 13 that killed 130 people and wounded 368. Because the attackers were all European citizens who were eligible to receive visa waivers, some lawmakers and counterterrorism officials feared that terrorists could exploit the program and travel to the United States to commit similar attacks.The travelers are not barred from the United States, but they will have to go through the more rigorous regular visa application process to enter the country.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

The administration’s plan would provide limited exemptions to those who have to travel to any of the seven countries as diplomats or for military service. Additional exemptions could be applied for humanitarian reasons or for journalists. The secretary of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, also could make additional exemptions if he determines that such a waiver is in the security interests of the United States.Several supporters of the legislation that led to the changes in the visa-waiver program applauded the Department of Homeland Security for adding the new countries, but they took issue with Obama administration plans to allow waivers.Representative Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, has accused the administration of violating the law. “Despite these positive steps, I still have grave concerns that the administration is not implementing this law as Congress intended and plans to waive important security screening requirements to appease countries like Iran,” he said in a statement. “The president must faithfully adhere to the law — it’s his duty to the Constitution and to ensure the security of the American people.”About 38 countries, mostly in Europe, participate in the visa-waiver program, which allows their citizens to visit the United States without a visa on trips of 90 days or less. About 20 million tourists use the program each year.

Follow the New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 2016, on page A3 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Puts More Restrictions on Visa-Waiver Program.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










U.S. Placed Immigrant Children With Traffickers, Report Says
JAN. 28, 2016













Lawsuits Claim Disney Colluded to Replace U.S. Workers With Immigrants
JAN. 25, 2016













U.S. Tightens Visa Rules for Some European Visitors
JAN. 21, 2016









Few Foreign Visitors to U.S. Overstay Visa, Federal Report Says
JAN. 20, 2016









Human Traffickers Found to Exploit U.S. Visas and Data-Sharing Failures
JAN. 11, 2016
























Related Coverage







U.S. Placed Immigrant Children With Traffickers, Report Says
JAN. 28, 2016













Lawsuits Claim Disney Colluded to Replace U.S. Workers With Immigrants
JAN. 25, 2016













U.S. Tightens Visa Rules for Some European Visitors
JAN. 21, 2016















Few Foreign Visitors to U.S. Overstay Visa, Federal Report Says
JAN. 20, 2016









Human Traffickers Found to Exploit U.S. Visas and Data-Sharing Failures
JAN. 11, 2016









House Panel Faults Failure to Review Visa Applicants’ Social Media Use
DEC. 17, 2015













U.S. Visa Process Missed San Bernardino Wife’s Online Zealotry
DEC. 12, 2015












Show All





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















