
  




U.S. Rebukes Iran Over Missile Tests, Calling Them Provocative - The New York Times




































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Middle East|U.S. Rebukes Iran Over Missile Tests, Calling Them Provocative



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1TTZNfT




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Middle East 
U.S. Rebukes Iran Over Missile Tests, Calling Them Provocative

By RICK GLADSTONEMARCH 11, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story








The United States rebuked Iran on Friday over a series of “provocative and destabilizing” ballistic missile tests this week and all but accused the Iranians of having violated a United Nations Security Council resolution that calls on them to refrain from such acts.The American ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, said in a statement that the United States had scheduled a Security Council meeting for Monday to address what she called “these dangerous launches.”Ms. Power’s statement elevated the tension between the United States and Iran over the missile issue, which threatens to undercut the improved atmosphere in the two months since the landmark Iranian nuclear agreement went into effect.That agreement, between Iran and major world powers including the United States, ended or suspended many economic sanctions against Iran in exchange for monitored guarantees that its nuclear work is peaceful.But Security Council Resolution 2231, which formally abrogated all of the Council’s nuclear-related sanctions against Iran once the agreement took effect, also included language meant to prevent Iran from launching missiles capable of carrying nuclear weapons.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

There was no immediate comment on Ms. Power’s statement from Iran’s United Nations mission.Iranian officials have contended that the missiles that were tested are purely defensive and that their country, menaced by Israel and other unfriendly powers including Saudi Arabia and the United States, is well within its rights to have a credible military deterrent.If Iran is found to have violated Resolution 2231, it will not constitute a violation of the nuclear agreement, but it could lead to new sanctions.American critics of Iran have described the missile tests as a sign of defiance that bodes ill for Iran’s adherence to its peaceful nuclear pledges.“The United States is deeply concerned about Iran’s recent ballistic missile launches, which are provocative and destabilizing,” Ms. Power said in her statement. She also criticized Iranian military leaders who were quoted in Iranian news media as saying that the missile testswere meant to be a direct threat to Israel.“We condemn such threats against another U.N. member state and one of our closest allies,” she said. The missile launches, she said, “underscore the need to work with partners around the world to slow and degrade Iran’s missile program.”

A version of this article appears in print on March 12, 2016, on page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Calls for Security Council Action on Iran’s ‘Provocative’ Missile Tests.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










Iran’s Missile Tests and the Nuclear Deal
MARCH 10, 2016













Iran Tests More Missiles in Message to Israel and Biden
MARCH 9, 2016













Iranian Unit Tests Missiles, Accusing U.S. of Threats
MARCH 8, 2016
























Related Coverage







Iran’s Missile Tests and the Nuclear Deal
MARCH 10, 2016













Iran Tests More Missiles in Message to Israel and Biden
MARCH 9, 2016













Iranian Unit Tests Missiles, Accusing U.S. of Threats
MARCH 8, 2016













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















