
  




U.S. Tightens Visa Rules for Some European Visitors - The New York Times














































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Politics|U.S. Tightens Visa Rules for Some European Visitors



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1UeH62S




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Politics 
U.S. Tightens Visa Rules for Some European Visitors

By RON NIXONJAN. 21, 2016



Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






International travelers waiting to speak with a Customs and Border Patrol officer after arriving at Miami International Airport in March. About 38 countries participate in the United States visa-waiver program, which allows their citizens to enter without a visa on trips of 90 days or less.

Credit
            Joe Raedle/Getty Images        


WASHINGTON —  The Obama administration on Thursday announced changes to a visa-waiver program that would make it harder for travelers to enter the United States from Europe if they had dual citizenship from Iran, Iraq, Sudan or Syria, or had visited one of those countries in the last five years.Those travelers will now have to go through the more rigorous regular visa application process to enter the country. The Department of Homeland Security, which announced the changes, said they would take place immediately.The administration’s plan would provide limited exemptions for individuals who have to travel to any of the four countries as diplomats or for military service. Additional exemptions could be applied for humanitarian reasons or for journalists.About 38 countries, mostly in Europe, participate in the visa-waiver program, which allows their citizens to visit the United States without a visa on trips of 90 days or less. About 20 million tourists use the program each year.The changes to the visa-waiver program come after the terrorist attacks in Paris on Nov. 13 that killed 130 people and injured 368. Because the attackers were all European citizens, some lawmakers and counterterrorism officials feared that terrorists could exploit the visa-waiver program and travel to the United States to commit similar attacks.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Many members of Congress also worried that some of the travelers who could pose a security threat might overstay their visits. Two of the Sept. 11 hijackers, Satam al-Suqami and Nawaf Alhazmi, overstayed their visas.But a report released Wednesday by the Department of Homeland Security, which lawmakers have been demanding for nearly 20 years, showed that the number of overstays — about a half-million in all — was slightly higher for citizens of countries where a visa is required to visit the United States than for those from countries like France and Germany, which are exempt under a visa-waiver program.Tourists traveling to the United States under the visa-waiver program are routinely screened against intelligence databases to check for links to terrorism or for other security risks, but these checks are less restrictive than those made on travelers who must obtain a visa.In December, Congress passed visa-waiver legislation that requires countries to share more information about travelers and authorizes the Department of Homeland Security to terminate any country’s participation in the program if it does not share the security data. The legislation would also strengthen efforts to detect and prevent passport fraud.House Republicans said the announcement by the administration went against the will of Congress by including waivers for certain government, humanitarian or journalistic purposes — or, in the case of Iran or Iraq, for business purposes.“All waivers announced by the White House were explicitly rejected by Congress during our negotiations with the administration,” wrote Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, and Candice Miller, Republican of Michigan, who sponsored legislation that led to the changes in the visa-waiver program.C. Stewart Verdery Jr., an official at the Department of Homeland Security during the administration of George W. Bush, said the legislation and the changes announced Thursday were good approaches to making countries that participated in the visa-waiver program live up to their commitments.“Not all countries were in compliance with the requirements that they have the proper documents, share information or identify risky passengers,” he said.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Mr. Verdery said the requirements that foreign travelers with dual citizenship go through additional steps to come to the United States would be an inconvenience, but a minor one.“They would just have to go through the additional steps of getting and paying for a visa,” he said. “This will only affect a small percentage of people. Besides, the visa-waiver program is a privilege, not a right.”The tourism industry said the changes to the visa-waiver program announced by the administration struck the right balance between security and legitimate travel.But Jonathan Grella, executive vice president for public affairs at the U.S. Travel Association, an industry trade group, said travel groups would keep an eye on how the changes were put into effect because European countries could decide to add security.Global aid groups voiced their concern about the changes to the visa-waiver program, saying it would affect their ability to brief White House officials, Congress or United Nations agencies on humanitarian crises because the changes would make it harder for workers born in countries such as Syria or Iraq to come to the United States.

Follow the New York Times’s politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.
A version of this article appears in print on January 22, 2016, on page A18 of the New York edition with the headline:  Terrorism Worries Bring Tighter Visa Rules for Some European Visitors .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage






Few Foreign Visitors to U.S. Overstay Visa, Federal Report Says
JAN. 20, 2016









Human Traffickers Found to Exploit U.S. Visas and Data-Sharing Failures
JAN. 11, 2016
























Related Coverage







Few Foreign Visitors to U.S. Overstay Visa, Federal Report Says
JAN. 20, 2016









Human Traffickers Found to Exploit U.S. Visas and Data-Sharing Failures
JAN. 11, 2016









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















