



Virus Fighters on 24-Hour, Global Guard - NYTimes.com
































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/technology, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/technology, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










Business Day
Technology





World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








Virus Fighters on 24-Hour, Global Guard


By MICHEL MARRIOTT


Published: June 10, 1999









                    JUST outside the security door to the Symantec Antivirus Research Center in Santa Monica, Calif., is a wall-length mural depicting engineers like those inside as superhumans and film noir detectives.        

                    SARC is part of the Symantec Corporation, a computer utilities and antivirus protection company that recently published a promotional comic book called ''Sarcman,''  extending the theme of virus fighters.        

                    After ''the evil virus vixen'' has threatened the world's computers, Sarcman, in a silver visor and sky-blue cape, flies in, analyzes the vixen's code and then -- Pow! Zap! -- saves the day.        

                    ''Some of them are that easy,'' said Carey Nachenberg, the center's chief researcher.        

                    In fact, the laboratory could not be further from Metropolis. Inside, rows of personal computers sit on metal racks like cages of puppies in a pet shop. On a recent Saturday, a few people spoke over the hum of computers and the low roar of high-capacity air conditioners.        

                    This laboratory is the hub of a global collection of smaller Symantec laboratories that study the world's thousands of computer viruses and fashion immunizations against them 24 hours a day, seven days a week.        

                    Inside the laboratory in Santa Monica,  there is hardly an hour when some software engineer is not hunched over a keyboard peering into a computer monitor for clues to understanding and then dispatching a computer virus that just might, if unchecked, disable millions of computers around the world.        

                    Mr. Nachenberg, 27, is one of those engineers. Chatty and irreverent, he lives and dreams the challenge of beating back the mounting threat of computer viruses.        

                    ''I really enjoy my work,'' he said. ''It's really creative.''        

                    He has worked at the center since he graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1995. His master's thesis on computer virus detection has yielded a number of antivirus technologies used by Symantec, based in Cupertino.        

                    He and the 44 other members of the center team have had their share of all-night emergency sessions.        

                    One of the most notable cases arose last December when he was away on a trip to the San Francisco Bay Area. His cellular phone rang. It was the home office. Computers belonging to a corporate customer were being wrecked by a nasty virus called Remote Explorer.        

                    ''I had to come in Christmas to produce a fix,'' Mr. Nachenberg said. ''We worked around the clock.''        

                    For virus hunters, this year has been particularly troublesome. There are currently more than 36,500 known computer viruses in the world, an explosive rise since the first viruses were discovered in 1986. And that number continues to mount at a rate of 10 to 15 new viruses every day, said Vincent M. Weafer, director of the center.        

                    And though some computer viruses are the products of mutating program code and, more rarely, of computer viruses mating,  the majority of viruses are the handiwork of people. Studies indicate that most virus writers are young men, 14 to 24 years old. And they come from almost anywhere in the world. Current hot spots for virus writing are India, New Zealand, Australia and the United States, virus experts say.        

                    The viruses are also becoming more dangerous to computer users. In 1993 only about 10 percent of known viruses were considered destructive, harming files and hard drives. But now about 35 percent are regarded as harmful, according to Symantec.        

                    The Computer Emergency Response Team at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh said most viruses were intended to annoy computer users, not to cripple systems. There are, however, viruses that are aimed at deleting files and doing real harm, said Quinn Peyton, technology coordinator for the response team's incident handling group. ''We have not seen many of those, but they do exist,'' Mr. Peyton said.        

                    Tracking and destroying computer viruses is a laborious and exacting business, antivirus engineers say. At the Symantec offices in Santa Monica, automation is used to weed out the routine viruses. The identifying characteristics of the thousands of viruses and their cures, called definitions, are kept on a database that is shipped to Symantec customers every week, Mr. Weafer said.        

                    When Symantec customers find suspected viruses in their computers they are encouraged to send the viruses to the center. Tens of thousands of suspect diskettes have flooded the center over the years. Beginning last summer, suspect files began coming in over the Internet, Mr. Weafer said.        

                    Computers automatically analyze the submissions. If they are among those Symantec has seen before, a remedy is sent back to the user to stop the virus, often in less than 30 minutes.        

                    But when a file turns up with a new strain of virus, the engineers are called into action. They examine the programming code of the virus, looking at its logic -- its unique sequence of ones and zeros that control its behavior and how it replicates (and all viruses, by definition, replicate) -- and whether it does harm, Mr. Nachenberg said.        

                    When the virus's method of operation becomes clear, often after infecting one or more of the center's racks of test computers and mock computer networks, engineers establish its characteristics, known as a fingerprint. A software repair is fashioned to remove it from files like some kind of digital wonder drug.        

                    Today, people like Mr. Nachenberg look at the new strains. In August, SARC is planning to let new computer systems take over much of this work so people can spend their time anticipating virus threats, Mr. Nachenberg said.        

                    While the antivirus center looks like a well-scrubbed medical laboratory, the tedium of cracking computer viruses is often broken with the sound of classic rock or techno music. Sometimes engineers listen to their personal stereos.        

                    ''Some of the stuff is a little redundant,'' said Sherralee Buzzell, a liaison between Symantec customers and engineers. ''They have to watch files as they load, then wait to see their response times. And they spend a lot of time looking through a file.''        

                    Mr. Weafer, the director, dressed in the unofficial company uniform of beige cotton slacks, casual shoes and a black knit, open-collar shirt emblazoned with the company's name over his heart, said he held no illusions about the work. ''I don't think we see it as glamorous, as the guys running in with the virus suits,'' he said. ''We do see ourselves as the protector of the customers. If we have a big customer who's got a virus issue, it is very serious for them.''        

                    But the Chernobyl virus, which caused hundreds of thousands of computer meltdowns around the world in April, was hardly able to get a foothold in the United States, he  said, because his team ran across it last year in Taiwan. A former computer engineering student in Taiwan was identified as the author of the virus.        

                    ''The idea of being able to respond really fast has helped,'' Mr. Weafer said.        

                    Photo: TRACKING AND DESTROYING -- At the Symantec Antivirus Research Center in Santa Monica, Calif., Vincent M. Weafer directs operations and Sarcman saves the day. (Chris Pizzello for The New York Times)                 








 






















 






Subscribe to Technology RSS Feeds





Technology News

Internet
Start-Ups
Business Computing
Companies








Bits Blog
Personal Tech
Pogue’s Posts


















 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/technology, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/technology, position: Inv1
