



WAR IN THE GULF -  SECURITY -  F.B.I. Is Monitoring Terrorist Supporters In U.S., Official Says - NYTimes.com































































Subscribe Now





Subscribe


campaign: inyt2016_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 283295, creative: 1_CRS-9886_bar1_inyt_q1_blitz_4YWLW -- 412769, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Bar1
Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



    Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com










U.S.





World
 
U.S.
PoliticsEducationTexas 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos








WAR IN THE GULF: SECURITY
WAR IN THE GULF: SECURITY; F.B.I. Is Monitoring Terrorist Supporters In U.S., Official Says


AP


Published: January 25, 1991









WASHINGTON, Jan. 24— 
                    An Assistant Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation told the nation's mayors today that the agency was monitoring supporters in the United States of Abu Nidal, Hezbollah and other Middle East terrorist groups that "have the capability to take action."        

                    But the official, William Baker, said that despite an outbreak of terrorism overseas since the Persian Gulf war began, the level of terrorist activity in this country was relatively low.        

                    William S. Sessions, the F.B.I. Director, who also appeared at the United States Conference of Mayors, said, "The bureau feels it is very much in control of the counterterrorism program."        

                    Mr. Baker said the bureau perceived the threat of Iraqi-inspired terrorism in this country as coming from Iraqi diplomats, supporters of international terrorist groups and individual zealots.  "Various terrorist support groups have infrastructures in the United States," he said.        

                    He said the Abu Nidal organization, which has been held responsible for nearly 30 hijackings, assassinations or other violence, had the highest potential for carrying out terrorist attacks.        

                    William H. Webster, Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, has privately told friends and former colleagues that the C.I.A. has tracked terrorists leaving Iraq since last August. He said these terrorists were thought to pose a threat only to Americans traveling abroad, not in this country.        








 














 














 














 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








Health » 



Too Hot to Handle





Arts » 



The Harmony of Liberty




Opinion »
Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed?
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.





Sports » 



A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray










Opinion » 



Menagerie: Streaming Eagles





U.S. »




Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat





Television » 



The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time





Book Review » 



Command Performance





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans





World »




Reading, Writing and Allegations




Opinion »
Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal
New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse.





Business »




Vice Has Media Giants Salivating












© 2016 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback











campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/us, position: Inv1
