
  




White House and Cuba Maneuver Over Obama’s Visit - The New York Times


















































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Americas|White House and Cuba Maneuver Over Obama’s Visit



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1U5xsS6




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Americas 
White House and Cuba Maneuver Over Obama’s Visit



                White House Letter            
By                     
JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS

MARCH 6, 2016




Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story









Photo






Workers painting the walls of the Estadio Latinoamericano baseball stadium in Havana, Cuba, last week. The Tampa Bay Rays are expected to play the first Major League Baseball exhibition game in Cuba since 1999.

Credit
            Desmond Boylan/Associated Press        


WASHINGTON —  When Major League Baseball completed a deal with the Cuban government last week to hold an exhibition game in Havana during President Obama’s planned visit this month, White House officials quietly rejoiced that a pivotal piece of their plan had fallen into place after weeks of intensive negotiations.It was just one aspect of an elaborate behind-the-scenes effort by American and Cuban officials to ensure that Mr. Obama’s historic visit to Cuba yields the powerful symbolism and concrete policy progress they are seeking.Both sides have a lot at stake. A successful trip could vindicate the decision by Mr. Obama and President Raúl Castro of Cuba to pursue an official thaw, broadcasting to both of their publics the possibilities of a new relationship and building political support in the United States for ending a decades-old trade embargo.But a misstep or public dispute has the potential to set back that goal by highlighting the deep differences that remain between the United States and Cuba. There is also the risk of dissonance in trying to open a new chapter in relations when so many of the old plotlines, including differences over human rights violations by Mr. Castro’s government, are still playing out.“This trip can either be the vindication or the refutation of Obama’s approach in Cuba,” said Christopher Sabatini, a professor of international affairs at Columbia University and the director of the Brooklyn-based research organization Global Americans.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

“If the Cubans lecture him on human rights or crack down on dissidents while he is there, it’s going to be quite ugly,” Professor Sabatini said. “It would make the president look like a dupe, and it would be a huge indictment of his foreign policy.”Officials on both sides are holding exhaustive talks to avoid such a public rift and instead showcase points of agreement and cooperation. They are haggling over everything from the details of the baseball game to which regulatory changes and business deals can be announced during the visit.A presidential baseball outing is now in, but a visit to the United States naval base at Guantánamo Bay is out. A speech by Mr. Obama to the Cuban people and a meeting with their president are planned, and a visit with political dissidents is a nonnegotiable demand, the White House told the Cubans. An appearance with Fidel Castro, the president’s older brother and the father of the Communist revolution, is to be avoided at all costs.Adding to the complexity and urgency of the task, there is no modern template for a sitting American president to visit Cuba, because it was nearly 90 years ago — when Calvin Coolidge arrived on a battleship — that the last one did.
Photo






A picture of President Barack Obama and Raúl Castro, Cuba’s president, on display at the Corona Tobacco factory in Havana.

Credit
            Alexandre Meneghini/Reuters        


“This is new for everybody,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the deputy national security adviser, who has lured at least one former lieutenant temporarily back to the National Security Council to help. “There may be irritants, there may be potholes, but people in both countries want this to happen.”Arranging a meeting with antigovernment activists has already emerged as a point of contention. Amid resistance from the Cubans, Secretary of State John Kerry was forced to scrap tentative plans to travel to Havana on Friday to meet with a group of dissidents. White House officials made it clear to their Cuban counterparts early on that such a meeting was mandatory for the president, but they have disagreed over whom Mr. Obama should see.“The Cubans are always resistant, but we laid down at the beginning of discussions he will meet with dissidents,” Mr. Rhodes said. He is negotiating over the trip with the same group of Cuban officials he secretly met with for months in Canada to strike the initial 2014 deal to begin normalizing relations.The Cuban government has made no secret of its displeasure about Mr. Obama’s plans to see the dissidents. Just after the White House announced the trip last month, Josefina Vidal, a senior Cuban Foreign Ministry official, said her country and the United States held “different ideas” about human rights. She said she hoped Mr. Obama would have a chance to speak with “real Cuban civil society,” apparently alluding to her government’s opinion that the dissidents American officials have sought to support are not legitimate.

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

There is less disagreement on travel and commerce between the United States and Cuba, and officials are discussing changes and business deals that the two sides could announce during the trip to tighten their ties.The White House is also considering revising regulations to allow American dollars to be used in transactions with Cuba and to allow individual Americans to travel there for “people-to-people” visits currently permitted only as part of group tours, Mr. Rhodes said.Talks on the trip have been unfolding for months, after the two presidents first discussed it during a September meeting in New York at the United Nations General Assembly, their second meeting after announcing the policy shift in December 2014. Mr. Obama told Mr. Castro that he would like to visit Cuba before the end of his term, but that he would be willing to make the trip only if he could justify it by pointing to concrete progress in the normalization process. He instructed senior White House aides to begin working toward that goal.Mr. Rhodes enlisted Bernadette Meehan, a former National Security Council spokeswoman and Foreign Service officer, who left the White House in June, to return to the West Wing to help plan the trip, reflecting the complexity of the task and the importance Mr. Obama places on bringing it off smoothly.For the Americans planning the trip, there have been some pleasant surprises — their government-issued BlackBerries work in Havana! — and some obstacles. The dearth of hotel rooms in Havana has made it extremely difficult to find enough beds for all the aides, security personnel, reporters, businesspeople and others who are clamoring to be part of the visit.A huge amount of preparatory work is being done by a lean United States Embassy staff in Havana, kept small by congressional restrictions imposed by opponents of Mr. Obama’s policy shift.“Every presidential trip has extraordinary detail at every level, from security to politics to media coverage, but Cuba’s not every trip,” said Peter Kornbluh, a co-author of “Back Channel to Cuba,” which recounts decades of clandestine talks between the American and Cuban governments. “This is a singularly historic game-changer that will be remembered like Nixon’s trip to China, and both sides have a lot at stake.”

A version of this article appears in print on March 7, 2016, on page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Baseball? Yes. Seeing Fidel? No. U.S. and Cuba Negotiate Obama’s Visit.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe




Continue reading the main story









Related Coverage










U.S. Pays to Feed and Shelter Cuban Migrants Stranded in Costa Rica
MARCH 4, 2016













Pact on U.S.-Cuba Flights Reopens Battle for Seized Property
FEB. 16, 2016









U.S. Plans to Resume Commercial Flights to Cuba This Year
FEB. 12, 2016













U.S. Eases Restrictions on Financing Exports to Cuba
JAN. 26, 2016
























Related Coverage







U.S. Pays to Feed and Shelter Cuban Migrants Stranded in Costa Rica
MARCH 4, 2016













Pact on U.S.-Cuba Flights Reopens Battle for Seized Property
FEB. 16, 2016













U.S. Plans to Resume Commercial Flights to Cuba This Year
FEB. 12, 2016









U.S. Eases Restrictions on Financing Exports to Cuba
JAN. 26, 2016













What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















