
  




In Etna Rosso, a Delicious Tension Between Sweet and Bitter - The New York Times








































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Food|In Etna Rosso, a Delicious Tension Between Sweet and Bitter



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1TVtYBB




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Food 
In Etna Rosso, a Delicious Tension Between Sweet and Bitter



Wine School 
By                     
 ERIC ASIMOV
 
MARCH 3, 2016



Inside










Photo







Credit
            Tony Cenicola/The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



No grape more than nerello mascalese illustrates the profound changes that have transformed the world of wine in the last 25 years.







Back then, the grape was almost universally dismissed as lacking potential. It came from an island, Sicily, that was reviled for the boatloads of bad wine it produced, and from a region, Mount Etna, that was ignored but for the hyperactive volcano that defines it.Now, Etna Rosso, a red wine made primarily of nerello mascalese, with a little help from its cousin, nerello cappuccio, is adored in wine bars and restaurants all over. It is considered one of the most exciting to have emerged on the global stage in this century.Here at Wine School, we’ve long acclaimed the growing diversity of grapes, places and styles as among the most thrilling pleasures wine has to offer. All it takes is an open mind and the courage to risk disappointment in the quest for new discoveries, prime virtues in our curriculum.Each month in Wine School, I recommend three bottles of a particular kind of wine for drinking over the next few weeks. As you consider the wines, I invite you to share your thoughts and insights by commenting at nytimes.com/food.I’d venture to guess that few were disappointed by the Etna Rossos we have been drinking. They included the three I recommended, Tenuta Delle Terre Nere Etna Rosso 2014, Benanti Etna Rosso Rossodiverzella 2013 and Biondi Etna Rosso Outis 2013, along with other Etna Rossos that you brought to the conversation.Possibly this was because Etna Rossos touch on many of the characteristics that classically define most red wines from Italy, bringing together these qualities in a particularly distinctive way.They are fragrant with the aromas of fruit and earth. The flavors suggest both sweetness and bitterness without actually achieving either. Yet in this tension between the two comes a thrilling ability to quench, intrigue, refresh and invite another sip. Structure comes from a combination of tannins and acidity, with the acidity playing a more prominent role than, say, with French reds. And they are transparent, with the best versions able to convey incremental differences in terroir.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Wine School: Your Next Lesson: PomerolMARCH 3, 2016











Wine School: Your Next Lesson: Etna RossoJAN. 28, 2016







The three bottles I chose were all entry-level wines, generally produced in quantity, often from the youngest vines or least-prized parts of the vineyard. They also require the least amount of aging, which makes them more immediately accessible than bottles that may have greater potential but would not be as enjoyable for a few years.
Continue reading the main story




        Follow NYT Food's board Wine Reviews on Pinterest. 




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Even so, these wines gave a distinct suggestion of what’s possible in better versions, which I’d encourage seeking out if you liked these. Almost everybody noted the earthy minerality that is a distinct component of nerello mascalese grown in the volcanic soils of Etna. For me, these wines each displayed the elemental tang of iron, which one reader, Martin Schappeit of Amherst, Va., communicated with graphic eloquence.“Like the blood of a dead animal,” he wrote of the Biondi. “This wine was dark, earthy, mysterious, fascinating.”




Smarter Living
Stories to help you understand the world – and make the most of it.







                                Coming Home to Pot Roast            
MAR 8








                                The End of the Road for Picasa            
MAR 8








                                Family Travel Unplugged: More Options for Teenagers            
MAR 8








                                Don’t Post About Me on Social Media, Children Say            
MAR 8








                                New York Today: A Campaign That Wasn’t            
MAR 8






See More »



JKM of Washington, D.C., noted “a peculiar earthiness that I will guess is related to the volcanic upbringing of these wines,” while Bailey Hoffner of Norman, Okla., found a “musty depth” to the aromas of a 2005 Calabretta, coincidentally one of my favorite Etna producers. Ali of New York sensed in the Biondi “ashy ground, earth, animal barn and white vinegar.”Now, I will say that Ali’s reference to white vinegar threw me for a moment. No wine producer would ever want “vinegar” to be associated with a wine; it generally indicates spoilage and would indeed be a flaw. But her use of the word came in an otherwise positive description.Returning to the wine, I could see what she meant. It had a savory, herbal element that combined with the lively acidity may be reminiscent of a, ahem, very good vinegar, which has a tart tang that is a long way from the acrid industrial versions.

Otherwise, I found the Biondi to be a typical example of an Etna Rosso, with earthy, tart flavors of sour cherries, a lean, graceful texture and a tight, focused aftertaste that fused fruitiness with a hint of bitterness.All of these qualities were even more expressive in the Benanti, which seemed bright, fresh and almost nervous with flavors of tart cherries and herbs, an earthy, yes, bloody iron edge and that finishing twist of fruit and bitterness, setting up the mouth for another sip.
Continue reading the main story










 reader perspectives



    Eric Asimov, The New York Times wine critic, is talking about Etna Rosso this month.If you would like to join the conversation, try one of the bottleslisted here and as you try them, ask yourself these questions.


Acidity
These wines are naturally high in acid. How do they feel in the mouth?
Flavors
Be general rather than specific. Sweet and fruited? Bitter? Savory? All of those?
Comparisons
Do these remind you of any other wines you’ve had?


    respond
  
 





By contrast, the Terre Nere seemed quite different. The flavors of tart cherry, earth and balsamic vinegar (I said it) were similar. But both aromatically and on the palate, it seemed more forward and yet more tannic, which was not surprising as it was a year younger than the other bottles.

Interestingly, Cathy Corison, the great Napa wine producer, speculated on Twitter that perhaps the winemaker had used some carbonic maceration, an increasingly popular technique around the world that is most often identified with Beaujolais, and can be associated with an attractive, spicy, fruity quality. I checked with the Terre Nere proprietor, Marco de Grazia, who said the wine was made in the more conventional way, with no carbonic maceration. I could understand why Ms. Corison might have thought that, though.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
One of the things I like best about these Etna Rossos is the elusive nature of their flavors. This quality is expressed especially in the almost electric push-pull between sweetness and bitterness, a balance that creates intrigue. Many readers noticed this as well and grappled for words to describe it.“Not sweet, but there’s something,” Masahiro Hosokawa of Tokyo wrote. Max D. of Michigan said, “It has fruit, but I’d hardly call it sweet,” while Ferguson wrote, “They were slightly sweet and fruited but savory too and no bitterness.”I suggest that the wines do, in fact, have suggestions of bitterness, but that people are often reluctant to use the term because it has a negative connotation. It should not. Bitterness, as long as it is in balance, can be pleasant and refreshing and is an essential element in many great red wines. Unfortunately, modern marketing infantilizes its audience by seizing the connotations of sweetness and fruitiness and rejecting flavors that may be perceived as green or bitter. My advice: embrace the bitterness.Many readers said these wines reminded them of pinot noirs (perhaps the taste of Marsannay was fresh in the mouth) or cru Beaujolais. I can see why. Both of these wines also show a fine balance between sweet and bitter with the addition of earthy mineral flavors, and each can be focused and graceful like the better Etna Rossos.

I would say they are also reminiscent of Chianti Classicos, which show a dusty tannic quality along with a more pronounced acidity than the French wines. Somewhere in the mix lie the Etna Rossos.One reader, Sherri Morano of Durham, N.C., who is a Master of Wine and works with Wine Ring, an interesting new wine-buying aid, lamented the comparisons. “I’d like to encourage wine lovers to assess nerello on its own terms as I worry comparisons won’t fully convey its unique character,” she wrote.Fair enough. Yet often such comparisons help place wines in a constellation of known quantities, which can serve as a useful mnemonic device. Imperfect, perhaps, but, as sommeliers and wine merchants know, practical.


Email: asimov@nytimes.com. And follow Eric Asimov on Twitter: @EricAsimov.
A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2016, on page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: An Eruption of Promise.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















