
  




Marsannay, Modest but Fully Realized Burgundy - The New York Times







































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Food|Marsannay, Modest but Fully Realized Burgundy



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1Kd8pKJ




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Food 
Marsannay, Modest but Fully Realized Burgundy



Wine School 
By                     
 ERIC ASIMOV
 
JAN. 28, 2016



Inside










Photo







Credit
            Tony Cenicola/The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



Of the many beautiful things about good red Burgundy, the most striking is the way the wine keeps changing before you. From the moment you open a bottle and pour the first glass, a cascade of elusive aromas and flavors captures your attention.







They begin gently and delicately, perhaps reminding you of enticing flowers and red fruits. With a little time, they may toughen, with suggestions of rocks and metals, even animals, before sweetening again. They reel you in, toss you back, and just when you believe the wine has reached equilibrium, it changes again. The mind reels. The spirit soars.Forgive me if I sound hyperbolic. That’s how I feel about Burgundy. It’s not magic, but it is mystery, and no wine more than Burgundy conveys the inscrutability at the core of all great wines.Forget that rising demand for Burgundy in the last 20 years has sealed its status as a luxury commodity, sending prices soaring. Its enigmatic beauty is what enchants true Burgundy lovers.Here at Wine School, we don’t try to “demystify” wines like Burgundy. We embrace what’s wondrous about them as part of their allure. But we do try to understand the different stories that wines have to tell, and we try to be open to hearing them.For the last month, we’ve been drinking, and listening, to Burgundy. More specifically, we’ve been drinking Marsannay; that is, wines from pinot noir grown in the commune of Marsannay, the northernmost village of the Côte d’Or, the heart of Burgundy.Given the ever-evolving aromas and flavors, Burgundy’s story may appear to be inconsistent. But while some may suggest that Burgundy is moody and fickle, I would argue instead that its underlying nature is fidelity to its terroir.As usual in Wine School, I recommended three bottles, all Marsannays from the 2013 vintage: Domaine Trapet Père et Fils; Domaine Bart Les Echezots and Domaine Sylvain Pataille Clos du Roy.I chose Marsannay because in the context of the Côte d’Or, it’s a modest wine. As is true throughout the Côte d’Or, the vineyards are organized hierarchically.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
At the bottom are the regional wines, made from grapes that come from anywhere within the borders of Burgundy, known as Bourgogne Rouge.At the next level in quality are wines that may be labeled Côtes de Nuits-Villages, from the northern half of the Côte d’Or, or Côtes de Beaune-Villages, from the southern half. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    





Wine School: Your Next Lesson: Etna Rosso 










Wine School: Your Next Lesson: Marsannay Burgundy 






The next step, wines from vineyards deemed good enough to bear the name of a particular village, like these three Marsannays, represents a big leap in quality. Some of these village vineyards may even bear a particular name often referred to as a lieu dit, like Les Echezots and Clos du Roy.
Continue reading the main story










 reader perspectives



    Eric Asimov, The New York Times wine critic, is talking about Marsannay Burgundy this month.If you would like to join the conversation, try one of the bottleslisted here and as you try them, ask yourself these questions.


Aroma
Describe.
Flavors
Can you explain, not so much in concrete terms but by how it makes you feel?
With Food
How did it go?


    respond
  
 




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Next up are the premier cru vineyards, which are thought to have special characteristics, and at the apex are the grands crus, vineyards considered to have such distinctive potential that they transcend the character of any village.The reason Marsannay is thought to be modest is that not only are no grand cru vineyards within the village limits, there are no premier cru vineyards either. The vineyards of Marsannay only achieved village status in 1987. Before that, the grapes were used for regional wines or to make a pretty good rosé.This sense of modesty helps keep prices down in relation to other village Burgundies. Still, at $30 to $50 a bottle, these wines are not cheap, and many readers chose to skip this month’s discussion. I would never dictate to anybody how to spend a wine budget. But I would say that red Burgundy is a fundamental wine. Simply to know it can be endlessly rewarding.




Wine School
A monthly column that invites you to drink and discuss wine with Eric Asimov.







                                Your Next Lesson: Etna Rosso            








                                Your Next Lesson: Marsannay Burgundy            








                                Fino Sherry, for the Undaunted            








                                Aglianico, a Red With a Sense of Place            








                                Your Next Lesson: Fino Sherry            






See More »



The best thing about Marsannay, especially in the hands of good producers like these three, is that the quality far surpasses modest expectations, which makes these wines good values and excellent introductions to the possibilities of Burgundy.Those who were able to find any of these wines or Marsannays from other good producers seemed to agree.Martin Schappeit of Amherst, Va., tried the Pataille with an herb-stuffed chicken. “It made me feel euphoric and energized,” he said. “I was completely taken by surprise.”

Others echoed his reaction. “Drinking this made me feel cosseted and lucky and perhaps privileged,” Ferguson wrote, while John Fraser of Toronto said drinking the Marsannay made him feel “warm, cheery.”

More so than most other wines, good Burgundies stimulate the emotions. Often, in an effort to master a wine, we focus instead on rational responses and analyses: Does it reflect the vintage? How does it compare with other pinot noir wines? Is it tannic? Balanced? What methods were used in the winery? How was it farmed? All worthy questions, and helpful for understanding a wine.
Continue reading the main story




        Follow NYT Food's board Wine Reviews on Pinterest. 



But it’s crucial to pay attention to emotions, too. This is the joy of wine, and especially of Burgundy. The further you explore, the more you get to know its complexities, the deeper and more profound the emotional response.The emotions are predicated on years of intellectual study, beginning centuries ago with Cistercian monks, who found a calling in parsing the varying characteristics of the vineyards. When you can smell, taste and — for those who’ve visited Burgundy — even see the land and its people in a bottle of wine, it’s stirring.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Sadly, who nowadays can afford the grand crus, which can cost many hundreds, even thousands of dollars? The better premier crus, too, can run in the hundreds.

Thankfully, we still have the pleasures of wines like these Marsannays, which can give some idea of Burgundian notions of terroir. For the record, I loved them all, though each differently. The Bart, for me, was perhaps the simplest and most direct, a riot of fresh, almost brilliant red fruit with an underlying earthy minerality. Of all the wines, I thought it changed the least in the glass.The Trapet, by contrast, seemed ever-changing. Straight from the bottle it was earthier and more tannic than the Bart, with darker, spicier flavors. With time, and especially with food, a stew based on this terrific recipe for pinto beans with bacon, the tannins receded and the wine became savory, almost saline, with an anise quality.The Pataille was fresh like the Bart but richer, a seamless blend of red fruit, flowers, minerals and exotic spices. It seemed as elegant as the Trapet did rustic.

Despite the individual characteristics of each wine, they all meet as expressions of Marsannay, medium-bodied wines with pretty red-fruit and floral aromas and flavors. They may evolve over the course of a meal.“With the accompanying chicken, the cherry became a strawberry aroma,” said Mel Winokur of New York City, while Cjmoore of Eugene, Ore., wrote, “They also changed constantly as we sniffed, tasted, then enjoyed with cheeses and our dinner.”That’s what Burgundy does, one of the many things that make it beautiful.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















