
  




Your Next Lesson: Pomerol - The New York Times









































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Food|Your Next Lesson: Pomerol



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In


0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1OU1uBu




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Food 
Your Next Lesson: Pomerol



Wine School 
By                     
 ERIC ASIMOV
 
MARCH 3, 2016



Inside










Photo







Credit
            Tony Cenicola/The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



This month, we will consider a much-reviled grape: merlot.While some of the revulsion is merely a reflex response to powerful scenes in the 2004 movie “Sideways,” much of the criticism was indeed earned. Widely planted, often in the wrong places, cynically overcropped and overpriced, much merlot, particularly from California, was insipid at best.We will not drink those wines. Instead, we will focus on the most exalted region for merlot in the world: Pomerol. These wines, I believe, will reveal that merlot was never the perpetrator but simply the abused victim of inappropriate farming and winemaking.In Pomerol, where merlot is the primary grape, a very different picture will emerge. Pétrus, after all, one of the most prized, sublime and expensive wines in the world, is almost entirely merlot. Other Pomerol stalwarts, like Vieux Château Certan and Château Trotanoy, are likewise beloved if not nearly as expensive as Pétrus.While Pomerol is part of Bordeaux, it differs in climate and geology from the Médoc, where cabernet sauvignon reigns, abetted by merlot. In Pomerol, cabernet franc plays the supporting role, with just a trickle of cabernet sauvignon. Unlike the Médoc, a region of imposing châteaux and numerous tycoons, Pomerol is plainer, a place where magnificence is rarely visible. Though the wineries may indeed have achieved wealth, many of their owners are still farmers at heart.Most of the exorbitantly priced wines come from a plateau of gravel and clay. We won’t be drinking those wines, needless to say. The wines I suggest come from beyond the plateau, where the soils may have more sand or more clay but are still hospitable to merlot.
Continue reading the main story










 reader perspectives



    Eric Asimov, The New York Times wine critic, is talking about merlot from Pomerol this month.If you would like to join the conversation, try one of the bottleslisted here and as you try them, ask yourself these questions.


Aromas and Flavors
Please describe.
Texture
How does it feel in the mouth?
Comparisons
Do these differ from merlots you’ve had? What about other Bordeaux?


    respond
  
 



They are expensive. Nonetheless, I urge you to try them, even if you can buy only one rather than three. You may never again drink a Pomerol, but you will better understand the potential both of the grape and of the region, and of wine in general.Here are the wines I recommend:Château Bourgneuf Pomerol 2012 (Maisons Marques & Domaines U.S.A., Oakland, Calif.) $45

La Gravette de Certan Pomerol 2012 (T. Elenteny Imports, New York) $45Château Nénin Pomerol 2012 (Fruit of the Vines, Long Island City, N.Y.) $60



Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Wine School: In Etna Rosso, a Delicious Tension Between Sweet and BitterMARCH 3, 2016











Wines of The Times: Taking Time to Explore Bordeaux’s Other SideJAN. 19, 2010







If you cannot find any of these, I will simply say that you should buy any Pomerol that you see and can afford, regardless of vintage. I’ve seen quite a few 2008s around — yes, they’re even better with a little age. I will single out two producers that I especially enjoy: Château Gombaude-Guillot and Clos Saint-André. Both show the vigneron side of Bordeaux. Their productions are small but worth seeking out.
Continue reading the main story




        Follow NYT Food's board Wine Reviews on Pinterest. 










Wine School
A monthly column that invites you to drink and discuss wine with Eric Asimov.







                                In Etna Rosso, a Delicious Tension Between Sweet and Bitter            
MAR 3








                                Your Next Lesson: Etna Rosso            
JAN 28








                                Marsannay, Modest but Fully Realized Burgundy            
JAN 28








                                Your Next Lesson: Marsannay Burgundy            
DEC 31








                                Fino Sherry, for the Undaunted            
DEC 31






See More »



What does one eat with Pomerol? I think these wines are best with simpler foods: lamb chops, roasts, even roast chicken. They will not be as firm as cabernet-based wines, but food that is too complicated may muddy the clarity of their flavors.Serve cool — well short of chilled but cooler than room temperature. For these wines, I recommend generous-size glasses. But, as always, don’t sweat what you don’t have.


A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2016, on page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: The Best of Merlot.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe









What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















