
  




Hieronymus Bosch Is Credited With Work in Kansas City Museum - The New York Times






























































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Art & Design|Hieronymus Bosch Is Credited With Work in Kansas City Museum



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QSoLd3




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Art & Design 
Hieronymus Bosch Is Credited With Work in Kansas City Museum

By NINA SIEGALFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






“The Temptation of St. Anthony,” dated 1500-1510, is by the Dutch Renaissance master Hieronymus Bosch, experts from the Bosch Research and Conservation Project said on Monday.

Credit
            Rik Klein Gotink/Image processing by Robert G. Erdmann for the Bosch Research and Conservation Project        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



’S-HERTOGENBOSCH, the Netherlands — A small 16th-century oil on panel largely kept in storage at a Kansas City, Mo., museum is a work by the Dutch Renaissance master Hieronymus Bosch, researchers here said on Monday, a finding that, if accepted by other scholars, would add to the tiny list of about 25 recognized Bosch paintings in the world.







The painting, “The Temptation of St. Anthony,” dated 1500-1510, had previously been attributed to the workshop of Bosch or to a follower of Bosch, known for his comic and surreal images of heaven and hell and the earthly moral purgatory in between.The new attribution is based on studies of underdrawings, a comparison of motifs and details on a microscopic level with similar ones in undisputed Bosch paintings, and an analysis of Bosch’s brush work. Taken together, the evidence indicates that “St. Anthony” is in Bosch’s “handwriting,” said experts from the Bosch Research and Conservation Project, a six-year, $3.3 million effort to study and catalog all of the artist’s works before the 500th anniversary of his death in 1516.“It’s the same painting, and all of a sudden you see it with more affection,” Julián Zugazagoitia, the director and chief executive officer of the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, said on Friday in Amsterdam. “It’s like your child who just won the Nobel Prize.”With the attribution, “St. Anthony” would be one of only five Bosch works in the United States. The Metropolitan Museum of Art, the National Gallery of Art in Washington, and the Yale University Art Gallery in New Haven each own one painting by Bosch, and the Morgan Library & Museum in New York has a Bosch drawing.The Nelson-Atkins, a small but highly regarded museum with a $30 million annual operating budget and about a half a million visitors a year, has a collection of 40,000 to 50,000 works, with highlights by Caravaggio, Gauguin and Monet.Independent experts have not yet reviewed the project’s evidence, and it can take years for scholars to come to a consensus on the authenticity of a painting. This attribution is based, however, on the most comprehensive study of Bosch works ever conducted, and it is accompanied by the publication of a 1,000-page monograph on Bosch by a team of eight specialists, including Bosch scholars and scientists. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









On the Horizon: A Bosch RetrospectiveJAN. 29, 2016











Bosch, Revolutionary and MasterNOV. 11, 2015











The Prado and a New Royal Museum Duel Over PaintingsMAY 1, 2015







“It’s an intriguing and plausible attribution,” Joseph Koerner, a professor of art history and architecture at Harvard, and the author of a coming book on Bosch and Bruegel, said on Sunday. He said he would need to see the painting himself before making a final determination.
Photo






A composite image showing different layers of “The Temptation of St. Anthony.”

Credit
            Rik Klein Gotink/Image processing by Robert G. Erdmann for the Bosch Research and Conservation Project        


Professor Koerner said that the work of the Bosch project was highly respected among scholars. “At the same time,” he added, “there’s no question that these attributions — and I’m sure they will admit this themselves — are not a science ultimately. It’s partly an art.”“The Temptation of St. Anthony” will be on display at the Noordbrabants Museum here in ‘s-Hertogenbosch, the artist’s hometown, as part of “Hieronymus Bosch: Visions of Genius,” the largest Bosch retrospective ever assembled. The show, which opens on Feb. 13, will feature 20 Bosch paintings and 19 drawings.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
Matthijs Ilsink, the coordinator of the Bosch Research and Conservation Project and a co-curator of the retrospective, said he first became interested in the painting when he saw it in an exhibition catalog several years ago and got a tip from an amateur historian who had taken an interest in the work.But Kansas City is a long flight from Amsterdam, and so he put the picture on his lengthy to-check list. It was not until last fall, after he and his colleagues were finishing up their studies for the monograph, that he remembered the work at the Nelson-Atkins.Assembling the retrospective required an intensive nine-year effort to get larger institutions to entrust their Bosches to a small museum with limited resources. Among the works on display are “Haywain Triptych,” on loan from the Prado in Madrid, and “The Adoration of the Magi” from the Met, as well as nine paintings that have been recently restored, six of them with the help of the research project.Notably absent is “Garden of Earthly Delights,” which is a centerpiece of the Prado and has not left Spain in more than 400 years.The research project, which was financed by the city of ‘s-Hertogenbosch, the Foundation Jheronimus Bosch 500, the Gieskes-Strijbis Fund and the Getty Foundation, examined about 35 paintings by Bosch, his followers or members of his workshop.“The Temptation of St. Anthony,” which is about 15 inches tall and 10 inches wide, was probably part of a much larger panel from a triptych that was dismantled at some point in the last 500 years. It had been heavily retouched and painted over.The Nelson-Atkins bought the work from a dealer in New York in 1935, two years after the museum was founded on the former estate of William Rockhill Nelson, a real estate developer and founder of The Kansas City Star newspaper.“St. Anthony” contains the bizarre details that have long amused and baffled viewers — what the Bosch project called “familiar little monsters,” like a figure with a spoonbill beak, a toad clambering out of the water and a floating sausage.But the key to the upgrade of the painting’s authorship to master from follower lay beneath the surface, researchers said.Bosch was constantly reworking his paintings, covering over or wiping out whole scenes from earlier drafts. Mr. Ilsink and his team were able to visualize those layers, using infrared photography and infrared reflectography, and they said that the “St. Anthony” underdrawings “perfectly match” those from other panels in Bosch’s core oeuvre in style, composition and brush work.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















