
  




A Yahoo Employee-Ranking System Is Challenged in Court - The New York Times



































































































 

















NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
LEARN MORE »









Sections

Home

Search
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
View mobile version




The New York Times





Technology|A Yahoo Employee-Ranking System Is Challenged in Court



Advertisement







Search


Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings




Close search


search sponsored by



Site Search Navigation



Search NYTimes.com



Clear this text input



Go






http://nyti.ms/1QU43K0




Loading...




See next articles





See previous articles








Site Navigation


Site Mobile Navigation






Advertisement






Supported by



Technology 
A Yahoo Employee-Ranking System Is Challenged in Court

By VINDU GOELFEB. 1, 2016


Inside








Photo






Gregory’s Anderson’s lawsuit provides a peek inside Yahoo’s controversial quarterly performance review system.

Credit
            Laura McDermott for The New York Times        




Advertisement

Continue reading the main story





Continue reading the main story
Share This Page

Continue reading the main story


Continue reading the main story



SAN FRANCISCO — One of Marissa Mayer’s signature policies as chief executive of Yahoo has been the quarterly performance review, in which every employee at the company is ranked on a scale of 1 to 5. The ratings have been used to fire hundreds of employees since Ms. Mayer joined the company in mid-2012.







Now, as Ms. Mayer prepares to announce a streamlining plan on Tuesday that is likely to involve even more job cuts, one former manager who lost his job is challenging the entire system as discriminatory and a violation of federal and California laws governing mass layoffs.In a lawsuit filed in Federal District Court in San Jose, Calif., on Monday, Gregory Anderson, an editor who oversaw Yahoo’s autos, homes, shopping, small business and travel sites in Sunnyvale, Calif., until he was fired in November 2014, alleges that the company’s senior managers routinely manipulated the rating system to fire hundreds of people without just cause to achieve the company’s financial goals.Mr. Anderson said the cuts, including what his boss said was the firing of about 600 other low-performing Yahoo employees at the time of his termination, amounted to illegal mass layoffs.Under California law, the layoff of more than 50 employees within 30 days at a single location like Yahoo’s Sunnyvale headquarters requires an employer to give workers 60 days of advance notice. A similar federal law, known as the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, requires advance notice for a layoff of 500 or more employees.Yahoo has never provided such notices. But it did cut 1,100 employees over a period of months in late 2014 and early 2015, ostensibly for performance reasons.Violations of either law can lead to penalties of $500 per employee plus back pay for each day of advance notice the company failed to provide.The lawsuit comes as Yahoo morale hits new lows, with more than one-third of the company’s work force having left voluntarily or involuntarily over the past year.Ms. Mayer, who has presided over a continued decline in Yahoo’s financial performance, faces pressure from activist investors to sell the company’s Internet businesses or otherwise radically restructure the business. She has promised to unveil a new strategy on Tuesday, when the company reports its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2015, although people familiar with her thinking say that the changes she will announce will be modest. 

Continue reading the main story


                            Related Coverage
                    









Yahoo’s Brain Drain Shows a Loss of Faith Inside the CompanyJAN. 10, 2016











Bits Blog: Yahoo Shuts Down Its Video PortalJAN. 4, 2016











DealBook: Diagnosing Yahoo’s Ills: Ugly Math in Marissa Mayer’s ReignDEC. 14, 2015







Mr. Anderson’s suit provides a peek inside Yahoo’s controversial quarterly performance review system, which Ms. Mayer adopted on the recommendation of McKinsey & Co., a management consulting company. Similar systems were once widely used in corporate America, including at companies like General Electric, Cisco Systems, Google and Accenture. 
Continue reading the main story








                    OPEN Document                



            Document: Complaint Against Yahoo        


Such forced rankings have largely been abandoned as a tool to guide routine firings, however, because of their corrosive effect on employee morale.At Yahoo, the program, known internally as Q.P.R., has been a sore spot among many employees since it began. The court filing said that managers were forced to give poor rankings to a certain percentage of their team, regardless of actual performance. Ratings given by front-line managers were arbitrarily changed by higher-level executives who often had no direct knowledge of the employee’s work. And employees were never told their exact rating and had no effective avenue of appeal.
Advertisement

Continue reading the main story


Advertisement

Continue reading the main story
“The Q.P.R. Process was opaque and the employees did not know who was making the final decisions, what numbers were being assigned by whom along the way, or why those numbers were being changed,” the lawsuit says. “This manipulation of the Q.P.R. Process permitted employment decisions, including terminations, to be made on the basis of personal biases and stereotyping.”
Photo






A quarterly performance review ratings system has been used to fire hundreds of employees at Yahoo since Marissa Mayer joined the company in mid-2012.

Credit
            Max Whittaker for The New York Times        


Mr. Anderson said that in his case, he had received high ratings and a promotion before taking a leave of absence in the summer of 2014 to study at the University of Michigan on a Knight-Wallace Fellowship. Although the fellowship leave was approved by two top Yahoo executives, Kathy Savitt and Jackie Reses, who have since left the company, Mr. Anderson said that his boss’s boss, Megan Liberman, called him on Nov. 10 to inform him that he was in the bottom 5 percent of the company’s work force, all of whom were being fired.In the suit, Mr. Anderson said he was fired for several reasons unrelated to performance. He said he had complained to management about the impact of the Q.P.R process on the people he supervised and had reported an attempted bribe by one employee who wanted him to reduce another employee’s rating.He also alleged gender discrimination, claiming that the media group, which was overseen by Ms. Savitt and Ms. Liberman, systematically favored women in hiring, promotions and layoffs.Mr. Anderson said he was “stranded” in Michigan with his family because of the firing.





What's Next


Loading...









Go to Home Page »

Site Index

The New York Times





Site Index Navigation


News


World


U.S.


Politics


N.Y.


Business


Tech


Science


Health


Sports


Education


Obituaries


Today's Paper


Corrections




Opinion


Today's Opinion


Op-Ed Columnists


Editorials


Contributing Writers


Op-Ed Contributors


Opinionator


Letters


Sunday Review


Taking Note


Room for Debate


Public Editor


Video: Opinion




Arts


Today's Arts


Art & Design


ArtsBeat


Books


Dance


Movies


Music


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Television


Theater


Video Games


Video: Arts




Living


Automobiles


Crossword


Food


Education


Fashion & Style


Health


Jobs


Magazine


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Real Estate


T Magazine


Travel


Weddings & Celebrations




Listings & More


Classifieds


Tools & Services


Times Topics


Public Editor


N.Y.C. Events Guide


Blogs


Multimedia


Photography


Video


NYT Store


Times Journeys


Subscribe


Manage My Account




Subscribe

Subscribe


Times Insider



Home Delivery



Digital Subscriptions



NYT Opinion



Crossword




Email Newsletters


Alerts


Gift Subscriptions


Corporate Subscriptions


Education Rate




Mobile Applications


Replica Edition


International New York Times








Site Information Navigation



                    © 2016 The New York Times Company


Home
Search
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale



Site Information Navigation

Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions



















