A Bid for Burberry Would Come With Challenges - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
DealBook|A Bid for Burberry Would Come With Challenges
A bid for Burberry does not check out financially.The apparel maker is the subject of takeover speculation after some mysterious movements among its investor base. But a potential price tag of 8 billion pounds would be extravagant. The stock is not cheap, costs are already lean and its not clear that a new owner could do much to halt slowing sales.Even without any bid premium to its 6.5 billion enterprise value, Burberry would be a brave buy. It is forecast to earn 472 million of operating profit in 2019, based on Thomson Reuters Eikon estimates, or 363 million after tax. That would give any buyer a threadbare 5.6 percent return on investment. Add a 30 percent premium to pad out the deal, and that falls to 4.3 percent.The trick for a buyer would be to get that return up to around 9 percent, which is Burberrys cost of capital, according to Morningstar. But how?One way would be to improve sales. Underlying revenue growth was 1 percent in the third quarter of 2015. In the same period of 2013, that number was 12 percent. Yet Burberry is an early adopter of online sales, and it drums up huge hype around its fashion shows. A new owner would have a tough time doing much better with Asian demand in the doldrums.The other option would be to increase Burberrys operating profit margin, which fell to 16.3 percent in 2015 from close to 18 percent two years earlier. Some of that is because Burberry is geared toward clothes rather than handbags. And the scope to rip out costs is limited.Management recently trimmed costs and performance-related pay to the tune of 55 million. The jeweler Bulgari was taken over by Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton in 2011 at roughly a 60 percent premium, but its operating margin at the time was half what Burberry manages.
Revamped United Airlines Board Could Be a Winning Compromise
AMC Move to Buy Carmike Is a Sensible One for Wang Jianlin
At Burberry: The Starriest Front Row in TownFEB. 22, 2016
Burberry Announces a See Now/Buy Now System for New CollectionsFEB. 5, 2016
Burberry Invades Los Angeles for a NightAPRIL 20, 2015
A creeping buildup is not out of the question. Bernard Arnault, the LVMH chief, tried out the same kind of stealth at Gucci and Herms. Unlike Herms, Kering or LVMH, Burberry lacks a protective large shareholder  so if a generous bid comes, it might be hard to rebuff. But even a trophy-hunter would struggle to explain this one as anything other than an extravagance.
Carol Ryan is a columnist for Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
