Ad Watch: Under Armour Trains With Michael Phelps - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Media|Ad Watch: Under Armour Trains With Michael Phelps
For 90 seconds, Michael Phelpss training regimen is on display: He swims, lifts weights, eats. At one point, he undergoes cupping therapy (seriously, just Google it).The Under Armour ad featuring the Olympic swimmer is an extension of the companys Rule Yourself campaign, which was introduced last year and seeks to shed light on how world-class athletes train. The Phelps spot will be introduced at an Under Armour event in Baltimore on Tuesday and follows the recent release of two other ads in the campaign, one showcasing the United States womens gymnastic team and the other featuring the young Dutch soccer star Memphis Depay. The creative agency Droga5 is behind the campaign.
The MessageThe overarching goal of the Rule Yourself campaign is to promote Under Armours training apparel. But the broader message of the campaigns second installment  whose ads run under the tagline Its what you do in the dark that puts you in the light  is to remind people that success does not come easy, an idea that can get lost in the age of YouTube where stars are seemingly made overnight.That is the headline we want people to remember: You have to train when no one is watching, said Adrienne R. Lofton, senior vice president for global brand marketing at Under Armour.The three new campaign spots are shot in plenty of shadow, underscoring the idea that much of the training required to be the best occurs out of the spotlight.Phelpss spot, set to The Last Goodbye by the Kills, is intended to highlight his singular focus as he trains for what may be his last Olympics. The ad was shot in Arizona, where Phelps was training for the Games in Brazil, which start in early August.The RiskIn an attempt to get the biggest bang out of its sponsorship buck, Under Armour is introducing a campaign featuring Olympic athletes like Phelps five months before the Games even begin. Under Armours push could be a bit premature and the spots could get lost once the barrage of Olympic-related ads really gets going.Bonus VideoAs part of the campaign, Under Armour is releasing a video of Phelps viewing the ad for the first time. The company brought Phelps and his fiance, Nicole Johnson, to its Baltimore headquarters on the day before Christmas, where the couple watched the ad with Kevin Plank, the companys chief executive.How did Phelps respond?In the video, Phelps, whom Ms. Lofton said knew very little about the ad before seeing it, is moved to tears.Thats insane, Phelps says.
Phelps' Reaction to "Rule Yourself" Spot Under Armour
In His Own WordsIn a phone interview before a workout in the pool on Monday, Phelps said the spot reflected how hard he works. I think it shows just exactly what I do, he said. It shows what Im extremely passionate about and I dont give up. For me, it was incredible.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
