Alcoa to Add 3 Directors, Heading Off a Board Fight - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
DealBook|Alcoa to Add 3 Directors, Heading Off a Board Fight
Alcoa to Add 3 Directors, Heading Off a Board Fight
An Alcoa aluminum factory in Szekesefehervar, Hungary, in 2006.
Alcoa has headed off a potential board fight with the activist hedge fund Elliott Management, announcing on Monday that it will add three directors.As part of an agreement between the two sides, Alcoa will put on its board Ulrich Schmidt, the former chief financial officer of Spirit AeroSystems; John C. Plant, the former chief executive of TRW Automotive; and Sean O. Mahoney, a former investment banker who is a director of the car-parts maker Delphi Automotive and of Formula One Holdings.The settlement comes as the aluminum stalwart prepares to divide itself in two, cleaving its commodity side from its metal products business. Elliott, one of the busiest activist investors on Wall Street, emerged as a potential spoiler, disclosing what has become a 7.5 percent stake in the company.
Mondays settlement reflects the trend of activists appearing in companies investor roll  and not picking a public fight, but instead working behind the scenes for changes and board seats. Such funds, previously known as noisy brawlers, have increasingly preferred to cast themselves as constructive agents of change.As part of Mondays settlement, Elliott agreed to back Alcoas entire slate of directors at the companys annual meeting.Each of our new directors is a high-caliber executive with a proven track record of success, and each brings valuable skills highly relevant to the markets we serve, including aerospace and automotive, Klaus Kleinfeld, Alcoas chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. We look forward to drawing on their expertise as we launch two independent companies positioned for success.Dave Miller, a senior portfolio manager at Elliott, added, This is a pivotal moment for Alcoa and represents an opportunity to create substantial value for shareholders.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
