The Latest: Friends Part Ways at Georgetown Ballot Box - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|The Latest: Friends Part Ways at Georgetown Ballot Box
The Latest: Friends Part Ways at Georgetown Ballot Box
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 8, 2016, 4:28 P.M. E.S.T.
The Latest on the election in Kentucky for four seats in the state House of Representatives (all times local):___4 p.m.Sara Sutton and Laura Guthrie are friends who came together to vote on Tuesday, but the political paths they took to the ballot box are much different.Sutton used to be a Democrat, but now she is a Republican. She voted for Republican Phillip Pratt in House district 62 because she said she supports Gov. Matt Bevin's proposed budget cuts. While she said the cuts will be painful, she said they were necessary to keeping the state financially sound.Guthrie used to be a Republican, but now she is a Democrat. She voted for Democrat Chuck Tackett because she said if Republicans control the state House of Representatives they will pass abortion restrictions and bills that would allow businesses to use religious objections to not serve gays and lesbians.____2 p.m.Kentucky voters are trickling to the polls for a set of elections that could upend Democratic control of the Kentucky House of Representatives for the first time in nearly a century.Clerks in Casey and Boyle counties report a slow turnout for Tuesday's special election, meaning the races could be decided by a handful of votes.John Chitwood, a 70-year-old former schoolteacher, made it out to vote at a fire station in Boyle County. He cast his ballot for Democrat Bill Noelker, a lawyer and former fighter pilot. He said he feared Republicans, with "crackpot ideas," would "steamroll us" if handed total control of state government.Insurance agent John Russell picked Daniel Elliot, a Republican lawyer, because he believes the GOP is friendlier to the coal industry and better at budgeting.___4 a.m.The fate of the last legislative chamber in the South still controlled by Democrats is in the hands of a few thousand Kentucky voters in four House districts throughout the state.Voters on Tuesday are electing four state representatives in a series of special elections created by resignations and two strategic appointments by new Republican Gov. Matt Bevin. Democrats have 50 members. Republicans have 46.A Republican sweep of the four races would mean Democrats would not control the chamber for the first time since 1920 and hand Bevin a trump card as he tries to push through $650 million in state spending cuts.The polls are open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. local time.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
