The Latest: Gunman Who Shot Chicago Boy Lured Him From Park - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|The Latest: Gunman Who Shot Chicago Boy Lured Him From Park
The Latest: Gunman Who Shot Chicago Boy Lured Him From Park
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 8, 2016, 3:43 P.M. E.S.T.
The latest on the arrest of a suspect in the shooting death of a 9-year-old Chicago boy (all times local):2:15 p.m.Cook County's chief prosecutor has revealed details of how she says a gang member lured a 9-year-old Chicago boy from a playground and into an alley and then killed him in an act of retaliation against the boy's father.State's Attorney Anita Alvarez told reporters Tuesday that Tyshawn Lee was playing on the swings Nov. 2 when Dwright Boone-Doty approached him. She says Boone-Doty dribbled the boy's basketball a few times, gave it back to him and offered to buy him whatever he wanted from a store.Alvarez says they walked off into an alley where Boone-Doty shot the boy several times.The 22-year-old Boone-Doty was charged Monday with first-degree murder. It was not immediately clear Tuesday if Boone-Doty had an attorney who can comment on his behalf.Authorities allege that two other men also played a role. One is jailed on murder charges and the other is at-large.___1 p.m.Chicago's interim police superintendent says it was a "targeted assassination" when a 9-year-old boy was shot and killed because of his father's gang ties.John Escalante said Tuesday morning that Tyshawn Lee's death was the culmination of gang violence that spiraled into retaliation and "zero regard for human life." On Monday night 22-year-old Dwright Boone-Doty was charged with first-degree murder for shooting Tyshawn on Nov. 2.Escalante says three men were involved in the boy's death, Boone-Doty, 27-year-old Corey Morgan, and a third man, Kevin Edwards, who remains at large. Escalante said the three men betrayed Tyshawn, who "paid the ultimate price for gang violence, senseless gang violence, that plagued his neighborhood."___6:35 a.m.A Chicago man who has been in custody since mid-November is charged in the death of a 9-year-old boy who police say was lured from a playground and shot in the head because of his father's gang ties.Chicago police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi says 22-year-old Dwright Boone-Doty was charged with first-degree murder Monday night in the Nov. 2 death of Tyshawn Lee. The Cook County State's Attorney's office says Boone-Doty also is charged with murder in the shooting death of 19-year-old Brianna Jenkins on Oct. 18.Guglielmi says Boone-Doty was held on unrelated gun charges when investigators connected him with Tyshawn's death. It wasn't immediately clear whether Boone-Doty has an attorney who can comment on his behalf.Another man was charged with murder in November in connection with Tyshawn's killing.This entry has been altered to correct the spelling of defendant Dwright Boone-Doty's first name, which had been misspelled Dwight.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
