Derailed California Train Plunged Into Creek, Injuring at Least Nine - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|Derailed California Train Plunged Into Creek, Injuring at Least Nine
Derailed California Train Plunged Into Creek, Injuring at Least Nine
Nine people were injured near Sunol, Calif., when an Altamont Corridor Express train derailed on Monday.
Alameda County Fire Department, via European Pressphoto Agency
The lead car of a commuter train derailed and plunged into a creek in Northern California late Monday, injuring nine passengers, officials said. Passengers shared images on social media of the rescue operation as emergency workers battled currents throughout the night to pull people from the car.The Altamont Corridor Express No. 10 commuter train was traveling from San Jose to Stockton when the train struck a tree on the tracks in Sunol, a rural area about 45 miles east of San Francisco, a statement on the ACE website said. The first two cars derailed, but only the lead car ended up in the Alameda Creek.
VIDEO: #ALCOFirefighters conduct a search of the derailed train in #Sunol. pic.twitter.com/fA2XeTENWU
The train, which has five cars altogether, was carrying 214 passengers when the accident happened at just after 7:15 p.m., Steve Walker, the safety coordinator for the ACE train, said in a telephone interview on Tuesday. He said the accident took place when the train would have been traveling at about 30 miles per hour.The cause of the crash is under investigation.It is not confirmed yet but it may have been a mudslide, Mr. Walker said. The tree and any debris would be something that would cause the train to derail.
Daylight reveals mudslide fell onto commuter train in Niles Canyon. NBC chopper overhead #california #derailment pic.twitter.com/VpjgaZklJE
Four passengers with serious injuries were taken to hospitals while five people had minor injuries, the ACE said. More than 190 others were evacuated temporarily to a local fairground, the Alameda Fire Department said.Evacuated passengers described panic in the dark, and images of the crash site were posted on social media.It just shifted the gravity all of a sudden, and we were all just panicking, said Rad Akhter, who spoke to NBC while huddled in a blanket on the side of the road. There were two people hurt pretty badly. One member was just under the mudslide so we were trying to dig her out while the train was hanging.
My husband can now add "train crash survivor" to his resume. He's fine thank goodness! https://t.co/4GpBdW6hlE pic.twitter.com/gfMF3PTYaS
#AceTrainDerailment. Finally got to highway 84. Walked about half a mile from the train. pic.twitter.com/dUgDcCF4E5
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
