Calvin Johnson, Quiet and Classy, Retires the Way He Played - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Pro Football|Calvin Johnson, Quiet and Classy, Retires the Way He Played
Calvin Johnson, Quiet and Classy, Retires the Way He Played
Calvin Johnson ends with 731 career receptions for 11,619 yards and 83 touchdowns.
It was a study in contrasts. Peyton Manning, fresh off a Super Bowl victory that came almost in spite of him rather than because of him, held a televised news conference to make the retirement announcement everyone knew was coming. A day later, Calvin Johnson, still seemingly in the prime of his career and one of the best receivers in football, issued a simple statement through the Detroit Lions to confirm the shocking news that he was walking away from the game after just nine seasons.
While I truly respect the significance of this, those who know me best will understand and not be surprised that I choose not to have a press conference for this announcement, his statement said in part.The sports world has been getting a lot of practice with drawn-out goodbyes recently. Kobe Bryant will wrap up his 82-game retirement tour for the Los Angeles Lakers right around the time David Ortiz begins his own 162-game farewell for the Boston Red Sox. Manning did not go that route exactly, but he spent nearly his entire final season with people wondering if he should have retired a year sooner.If there are different genres of sports retirements, Bryant and Ortiz chose the Kareem Abdul-Jabbar method of a big announcement before one last season, with the quality of that season considered almost irrelevant. Johnson, meanwhile, went the route of another Lakers big man, Elgin Baylor, who shocked the world by quietly walking away on his own terms when he easily could have stuck around and let his past achievements justify his presence.For Johnson, retirement comes after a season in which he had 88 catches for 1,214 yards and nine touchdowns. It was his sixth consecutive season of 70 or more catches and 1,000 or more yards, and he remained comfortably among the top 10 wide receivers in the game despite having turned 30 in September.But when the news began to leak out last month that Johnson was considering retirement, the initial shock started to wear off and people began to acknowledge that while he was still a highly productive receiver, there had been a slight decline in his statistics that could support the idea that his body was beginning to break down after years of being unafraid to make difficult catches in traffic.Playing for a team that struggled to maintain anything resembling consistency, Johnson had the lowest yards per reception average of his career while averaging his fewest yards a game since 2010. He had a number of nagging injuries, but he played in all 16 games and was graded as the ninth best wide receiver in the N.F.L. by Pro Football Focus. But some combination of his body wearing down and his teams inability to compete seems to have robbed him of the desire to keep going.The announcement was met with kind words from a player whom he has been compared to frequently in the last month.He was an amazing and rare talent, both on and off the field, and I feel lucky to have been able to see him play, Barry Sanders, a Hall of Fame running back for the Lions who also retired at 30, wrote on his blog.
Like Johnson, Sanders chose to make his shocking retirement a quiet affair, faxing the announcement to The Wichita Eagle.For Sanders, the decision was complicated by the widely held belief that had he stuck around he would have been able to break Walter Paytons career rushing record and perhaps even amass enough yards that Emmitt Smith would not have been able to overtake him. But after more than 16 years, Sanders, who some have said would have preferred to keep playing if Detroit had honored a trade request, has stated that his only regret was never playing in a Super Bowl.The fact that the Lions never even came close to achieving that goal in his postretirement years could be comforting to Sanders, as opposed to Baylor, who retired partway through the 1971-72 season as perhaps the best N.B.A. player to never win a championship only to see his team immediately reel off a 33-game winning streak and then win the N.B.A. finals without him.The thought that the Lions could come together and win an N.F.L. championship in the next few seasons is far-fetched. In the end, that may be why Johnson chose to walk away with his body still somewhat intact rather than dragging things out.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
