Chinese Publication, Censored by Government, Exposes Articles Removal - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Asia Pacific|Chinese Publication, Censored by Government, Exposes Articles Removal
Chinese Publication, Censored by Government, Exposes Articles Removal
Hu Shuli, editor in chief of the Chinese news organization Caixin Media.
A news organization led by one of Chinas most prominent journalists is sounding the alarm about censorship and the growing restrictions on free speech, citing a source very familiar with the situation: itself.On Tuesday, the influential and respected news organization Caixin Media posted an article on its English-language website reporting that the countrys Internet regulator, the Cyberspace Administration of China, which it called a government censorship organ, had deleted a March 3 article on Caixins Chinese-language website because it contained illegal content.
As Economy Slows, Experts Call on China to Drop Growth TargetMARCH 4, 2016
Sinosphere: As Chinas 2 Sessions Convene in Beijing, Delegates Are WaryMARCH 4, 2016
Sinosphere: Peering Through the Haze of Chinas Economic DataFEB. 26, 2016
As Chinas Economic Picture Turns Uglier, Beijing Applies AirbrushFEB. 25, 2016
The article, which Caixin said was removed on Saturday, quoted Jiang Hong, a member of the Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference, an advisory body, who said that advisers should be free to give their opinions to the Communist Partys leaders, who have gathered this month for the annual session of the National Peoples Congress, the countrys legislature. Mr. Jiang was quoted as saying that certain events had cast a shadow over the meetings, leaving attendees a bit dazed and not wanting to talk too much. The New York Times cited that Caixin article in a report on Friday.
A screenshot of an article that was removed from Caixins English-language website.
Insight, analysis and conversation about Chinese culture, media and politics.
Year After Detentions, Chinese Feminists Mark Setbacks and Progress
Death of Chinese Woman Trapped in Elevator for Month Stokes Uproar
Q. and A.: How Chinas National Peoples Congress Works
As Chinas 2 Sessions Convene in Beijing, Delegates Are Wary
Advisory Bodys Delegates Offer Glimpse Into Chinas Worries
For a Chinese news organization to publicize the governments censorship of the news media is highly unusual, and it comes less than three weeks after President Xi Jinping made a high-profile visit to some leading state-controlled news organizations, including China Central Television and the news agency Xinhua, telling them that they exist as propaganda tools for the Communist Party. While Caixin has always had more leeway than those organizations, it must still obey increasingly strict rules on what news organizations can publish.
The English-language article from Caixin is a highly unusual instance of a Chinese publication publicly exposing an act of censorship, said David Bandurski, an editor at the China Media Project at the University of Hong Kong. I think we can also guess that serious turf wars are happening within the leadership over control of the very business of press control.
Caixin went so far as to interview Mr. Jiang about the censorship, who said he found it terrible and bewildering, and could not fathom what laws and regulations he had violated that warranted the articles removal.Caixins editor in chief is Hu Shuli, arguably Chinas most highly regarded journalist, who is known to have a keen sense of how far she can push the envelope in publishing articles that expose corruption or criticize government policies. In 2005, when she oversaw another pioneering publication, she told The Times: We go up to the line  and we might even push it. But we never cross it.
But lately, the Communist Party has shown no hesitation about striking out at anyone, no matter how famous, who questions its control of the news media. Last month, one of Chinas leading online commentators had his microblog deleted after he criticized Mr. Xis call for the news media to serve the party. The commentator, Ren Zhiqiang, a real estate executive, had nearly 38 million followers on Sina Weibo, Chinas equivalent to Twitter.
Ms. Hu did not reply to an emailed request for comment. When called on her cellphone, her secretary said Ms. Hu was unable to talk because she was in a meeting.On Tuesday, online readers, even outside Chinas so-called Great Firewall, saw this note in Chinese when trying to reach the March 3 article, stating that the page was unavailable and redirecting readers to Caixins home page.By Tuesday afternoon in Beijing, the same note appeared when trying to open the English-language article.
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day with the Todays Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
