NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Priya Chandra and Imam Khalid Latif with their son, Kareem.
Until six months ago, Imam Khalid Latif, a chaplain of the New York Police Department and the executive director of the Islamic Center at New York University, did not own a dining table.With his wife, Priya Chandra, and their daughter, Madina, now 3, he made do with eating on the couch or the floor, just as he had as a bachelor chaplain in residence living in the same N.Y.U. dormitory apartment.An island once stood in the open kitchen, effectively functioning as a hall closet. “We threw our clothes on the stools,” Ms. Chandra said. Days before their son, Kareem, was born, with half the apartment under renovation, the table arrived from Macy’s. Its particulars (acacia wood, dark rustic finish) mattered less than simply having a place to sit and eat together.For Imam Latif, 33, it is this intangible, the sense of the dining table as a sanctuary, that he most treasures. “Being at home,” he said. “Eating food made by someone who knows you, who loves you.”
Celebrating the objects, practical or precious, that cooks find indispensable.
For David Lebovitz, a Mortar and Pestle Trumps Any Gadget
“My relationship to food has been really interesting because it’s had a lot to do with my spiritual development,” he said. He grew up in Edison, N.J., the son of Pakistani immigrants with roots in Kashmir. When he was 10, he brought home a bag of Rice Krispies Treats. His sister informed him that they contained gelatin, which comes from pigs and is thus not halal, or permitted for Muslims.
Bewildered, he locked himself in his bedroom and ate the whole bag. They were his last Rice Krispies Treats. Soon after, he gave up marshmallow-strewn Lucky Charms, along with, he said, “a really, really big part of my heart.”Eventually, he started to eat only zabihah meat, from animals slaughtered in accordance with Islamic law: one quick slash to the throat for as painless a death as possible, done with a blessing.
He first witnessed an animal’s death when he was a child visiting relatives in Pakistan. A week before Eid al-Fitr (the Muslim feast celebrating the end of Ramadan, a month of fasts), a goat suddenly appeared in his aunt’s yard.“We’re playing with it, combing its hair, brushing its teeth,” he said. “Then a man came and killed it.” He invoked his childhood horror: “‘Why did you do that?’”
At 18, Imam Latif thought he needed to slaughter an animal himself, to understand “what are the ethics here, what are we really doing.” He went to a farm and found himself standing in front of a goat. “It was a surreal experience,” he said. “You’re asking a part of creation to give its life so your life can be sustained.”
In 2014, he and two partners opened Honest Chops, an East Village butcher shop devoted to selling meat that is not only zabihah, but also from animals raised humanely. He was shocked to visit farms and see chickens “so large they can’t stand,” he said. “They have no feathers on their stomachs.”Last Ramadan, in the spirit of mindful consumption, he decided to relinquish sugar. This proved brutal. “He was a very angry man,” Ms. Chandra said, laughing.
Gone are the days when he might tweet a photograph of a half-eaten chocolate-chip cookie from a bake sale for the Islamic Center, or air suspicions on Facebook that his wife was “stealing” one of his cookies.“I ate it,” she admitted. “That was when I was pregnant.”“It wasn’t just one,” he said.
Close at Hand celebrates the objects, practical or precious, that cooks find indispensable.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
