Elvis & Nixon Will Debut at Tribeca Film Festival - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Movies|Elvis & Nixon Will Debut at Tribeca Film Festival
Elvis & Nixon Will Debut at Tribeca Film Festival
Michael Shannon and Kevin Spacey in Elvis & Nixon.
At this years Tribeca Film Festival, Elvis will be in the building.The festivals centerpiece screening will be the world premiere of Elvis & Nixon, directed by Liza Johnson, organizers announced Tuesday. The film stars Michael Shannon as Elvis Presley and Kevin Spacey as Richard M. Nixon, based on a moment in history when Presley arrived on the White House lawn with hopes of being deputized into the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs.Among the other films announced is A Hologram for the King, directed and adapted for the screen by Tom Tykwer and starring Tom Hanks. It is based on Dave Eggerss novel about a struggling businessman who tries to sell advanced technology to the king of Saudi Arabia. The movie is playing as part of the festivals spotlight section, which also includes All We Had, a coming-of-age drama directed by Katie Holmes about a teenage girl and her mother settling in a new town. The section will open with The Devil and the Deep Blue Sea, starring Jason Sudeikis as a man who must rebuild his life after a tragedy. And Custody brings Viola Davis back to the big screen as a family court judge in a difficult marriage. The comedy The Family Fang, directed by Jason Bateman and featuring Nicole Kidman and Mr. Bateman as the children of performance artists, will also screen.Documentaries in the spotlight section include Command and Control, based on Eric Schlossers 2013 book about nuclear risk. Bad Rap follows the lives of four Asian-American rappers trying to break into the mainstream. Check It looks at a group of inner-city L.G.B.T. youth in Washington who form a fashion gang. And the church of Scientology is further explored in My Scientology Movie.Special events at the festival will include a performance by Green Days Billie Joe Armstrong after a screening of the narrative film Geezer, which stars Mr. Armstrong as a father and former punk rocker. And the soccer star Pel will hold a discussion after a screening of a narrative film about his life, Pel: Birth of a Legend.The Tribeca Film Festival will run from April 13-24.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
