In Williamsburg, Falafel in the Tel Aviv Style - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Food|In Williamsburg, Falafel in the Tel Aviv Style
To Savor: In the Tel Aviv Style, Falafel to GoFor the new streetside kiosk attached to the 12 Chairs Cafe in Brooklyn, the chef, Shimon Maman, and his partners looked to Tel Avivs falafel stands. Pita bread comes with traditional stuffings like sabich (eggplant), kebabs, shakshuka and falafel, the last with fried potatoes in the sandwich. Mr. Maman said his fillings had more finesse than is typical in Israel. The stand is open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.; there is covered seating as well as takeout: The Kiosk, 12 Chairs Cafe, 342 Wythe Avenue (South Second Street), South Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 347-227-7077, 12chairscafe.com.
Supercrown Pairs Coffee With Everything in Bushwick
A Lonely Planet Wine Guide Lets You Drink It All In
Pickled hot dogs are a new specialty at Jake Dicksons butcher shop. Slice them in chunks, skewer on toothpicks and serve with mustard for something that flirts with sharpness alongside beer: Pickled Dogs, $18 for a quart, $30 for a half-gallon, Dicksons Farmstand Meats, Chelsea Market, 75 Ninth Avenue (West 15th Street), 212-242-2630, dicksonsfarmstand.com.To Share: These Baguettes Show Their Love
Theres nothing subtle about the heart-shaped baguettes that Kamel Saci, the baker at Il Buco Alimentari, will sell on Feb. 13 and 14. The choices are sprouted grain, savory Parmesan and an earthy double chocolate called Mon Cheri thats sweetly fruity with amaretto-soaked cherries. You can order them in advance: Heart-shaped baguettes, $5 each, Il Buco Alimentari e Vineria, 53 Great Jones Street (Bowery), 212-837-2622, ilbucovineria.com.
To Munch: Not the Usual Super Bowl SnackInstead of the inevitable chicken wings, treat your Super Bowl guests to crackling chicken skin snacks. Ken Oringer, a chef and owner of Toro on the edge of Chelsea, bakes the skin until crisp and spreads it with Spanish pimento cheese for little bocadillo sandwiches. To make them at home, place pieces of chicken skin seasoned with salt and pepper atop a layer of parchment on a rimmed sheet pan, cover with more parchment and weigh down with another pan. Bake for about 50 minutes at 325 degrees until golden brown. Drain on paper towels and cut into two-inch squares. I used the skin from eight chicken thighs, which gave me 32 nicely uniform pieces of crisp skin, and froze the thighs for future use. I set up two pans on two oven racks, reversing them halfway through the baking. The skin shrinks during the baking. I left my sandwiches open-faced, which Mr. Oringer endorsed, and topped some with blue cheese softened with mayonnaise garnished with a morsel of celery as a nod to those wings.
To Observe: Chocolates for the Lunar New YearA wooden box stamped with a good-luck seal, secured with a ribbon and packed with Asian-flavored bonbons is a festive token for the Lunar New Year (Year of the Monkey) starting Monday. The chocolatier Michael Klug uses ingredients like lemongrass, mango, Lapsang souchong tea, plum wine and five-spice: $24 to $75 through Feb. 18, L.A. Burdick Handmade Chocolates, 5 East 20th Street and elsewhere, 800-229-2419, burdickchocolate.com.To View: The Artistic Side of Sausages
At the Carpet Shop, a work from Peter Fischli and David Weisss Sausage Series.
Sausages depicted as fashion, modes of transport and rugs (At the Carpet Shop) are among the whimsical pieces from Sausage Series (1979), by the Swiss artists Peter Fischli and David Weiss, which will be on display at the Guggenheim starting Friday. Alejandro Cortez, the chef at the Wright, the museums restaurant, will add a sausage dish to the brunch menu starting Friday and for lunch on Monday: Peter Fischli David Weiss: How to Work Better, Friday to April 27, Guggenheim Museum, 212-423-3500, Guggenheim.org.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
