Family Travel Unplugged: More Options for Teenagers - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Travel|Family Travel Unplugged: More Options for Teenagers
Family Travel Unplugged: More Options for Teenagers
Resorts have added a variety of adventures to keep vacationing teenagers entertained.
Its annoying enough to police your childrens digital excesses at home. But precious vacation time being wasted as they socialize virtually instead of engaging in the moment is the bane of 21st-century parenting. Heeding parents frustrations, hotels and resorts have responded with adolescent-savvy programming that encourages real-world interaction.After a day on the slopes, the BC<3t2 (Beaver Creek Loves Teens Too) program in Colorado kicks into gear (during the winter and spring seasons) with field trips in and around the resort: tubing at Vails Adventure Ridge, guided twilight snowshoeing, a class for ski and snowboard flips and stunts at the Anti-Gravity Center in nearby Edwards.At family-run, all-inclusive Beaches resorts (Turks and Caicos, Negril, Ocho Rios), teens have their own spa menu, nightclub and games arcade complete with a Scratch D.J. Academy. This year, Island Impact is offering the chance to work with local children on reading and computer skills.
Stories to help you understand the world  and make the most of it.
A daily newspaper outlines dedicated activities for the 13- to 17-year-old set at Aulani, a Disney resort in Hawaii. Aside from an extensive menu of water sports, there are youth-specific fitness classes and spa services (along with D.I.Y. product tutorials) at the Painted Sky Teen Spa.Small group trekking adventures (parents tag along on these) to locales like Thailand, Peru, Costa Rica and Tanzania are a sure way to make children forget about Snapchat. Thomson Family Adventures
offers active teen trips that focus on immersive culture: camping at an ancient Inca quarry, spending the afternoon with Masai teens.Other properties like Half Moon Montego Bay in Jamaica, the Resort at Pelican Hill in Newport Beach, Calif., and Grand Velas Riviera Nayarit in Mexico have tech-forward chill zones where teenagers convene over old- and new-school gaming. Counselors double as concierges and organize outdoor group experiences.
A version of this article appears in print on March 13, 2016, on page TR2 of the New York edition with the headline: Appealing to the Unplugged.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
