Hitting Brings Don Mattingly and Barry Bonds Together on Marlins Staff - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Baseball|Hitting Brings Don Mattingly and Barry Bonds Together on Marlins Staff
Hitting Brings Don Mattingly and Barry Bonds Together on Marlins Staff
The Marlins new manager, Don Mattingly, likes that Barry Bonds is all about balance and instinct as the teams new hitting coach.
JUPITER, Fla.  The earliest memory Don Mattingly could summon on the subject of Barry Bonds as a hitter not unlike himself, one genuinely blessed with a pureness of swing, was a late 1980s conversation with a former Bonds teammate in Pittsburgh, Sid Bream.
Bream, Mattingly said, had told him: He can do anything he wants. Wants to hit .300, he can hit .300. Wants to hit for power, he can hit for power. Hes the best player Ive ever seen.Mattingly, trim and tan in his new Miami Marlins uniform, shrugged under the Tuesday morning sun outside the clubhouse, the Yankees soon to arrive for the days exhibition.Somebody tells you that, you start to pay attention, he said.There was a relatively short period during those years before Mattinglys back rebelled and aborted a likely Hall of Fame career when a convincing argument could be made that he and Bonds represented the very best of hitters in their respective leagues.
On Baseball: Perry Hill Delivers a Simple Message for a Complex TaskFEB. 26, 2016
But as the scandal-marred Bonds, having resurfaced in baseball this spring as Mattinglys hitting coach with the Marlins, perceptively noted, those were different times, a generation preceding the connectivity of interleague play, social media, every major league home run and highlight deliverable to ones smartphone.
Mattingly wanted to be certain Bonds understood the time commitment before he accepted a job as hitting coach.
Across the leagues, there was more mystery among the stars, more curiosity, more grapevine gossip.Donnie and I didnt play against each other, we never crossed paths, other than maybe admiring each other on television and stuff, Bonds said. For the first couple of years, I was a young kid, not in Donnies class. He was doing his thing  we were all admiring him at that time  but I was just trying to carve my own path.Now their paths have intersected, for starters, at Roger Dean Stadium, which the Marlins share as their spring home with the St. Louis Cardinals  who a half-dozen years ago brought the comparatively notorious Mark McGwire back into baseball in the same hitting coach position.On one level, the working union of Mattingly and Bonds  curiously arranged by the Marlins owner, Jeffrey Loria  would appear to be an eccentric study in character contrasts.
A regular analytical column looking at major league baseball.
Jacob deGrom Grumbles, and It Fails to Resonate With Mets
After Heartbreak, Minnesota Twins Slugger Miguel Sano Looks Ahead
Build a Winner? Blue Jays Front Office Inherited One
For Bronson Arroyo, a Comeback at 39 Would Be Pure Gravy
Mattingly, still referred to adoringly as Donnie Baseball, may have committed no greater behavioral offense as a player than defying George Steinbrenners ban on facial hair, which Mattingly, amazingly enough, has adopted with the Marlins.Bondss record and records  from the single-season and career home run barrage during the peak of the steroids era to the prosecutorial aftermath  are an essential part of an eternal debate about an industrywide debacle. But Bonds has returned, the familiar No. 25 upon his back, even as Hall of Fame voters deny him what he had already earned before his body, now proportionally fit, swelled along with his late-career statistical power surge. Call this occurrence whatever you like  a paradox, a pretension, a pity  but Bonds said he has moved on, taking on the challenge of teacher.
Thats my role now, he said. I dont even care about my career anymore. I let the guys know: This is your time. I dont play this game anymore. Theyll kid around and say, I can outhit you, and I say: Yeah, you better. Im 51 years old. But if we were playing in the same time, that would be a different conversation, I can assure you that. Sitting in the shade of a batting cage, where he had just worked out a Marlins minor league prospect, Bonds let loose a hearty laugh, seemingly in a serene state of being.Conversely, it wasnt yet 9 a.m. and he had been at the complex and on the field for almost two hours.Long days for me, he said. I dont know if I ever even stayed for a nine-inning spring training game in my life.Bonds was born a child of major league privilege, the son of Bobby Bonds and later the prince of San Francisco, even when the rest of the country called him a pariah.
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
The job description was part of the discussion Mattingly said he had with Bonds  the most significant part  when they met in New York soon after Mattingly was announced as the Marlins manager last fall after being fired by the Los Angeles Dodgers.Jeffrey had Barry come in, we talked, about some of the things, Mattingly said. I knew the hitting part wasnt going to be a problem. Then we just talked about the time that it took and his commitment to that. I just wanted him to understand about the time.I think that will be Barrys biggest adjustment  the opposing pitchers, time in the cage, that grind. People dont realize how much time and preparation there is. You got 13 guys trying to get ready, somebodys always a mess. Its just a lot of time.A couple of weeks in, Bonds said he was enjoying building relationships with the hitters, determining what they need from him, and the advantage of working with a manager who also hit in baseball, because thats what I did.He added: With Donnie and me its good because when you sit around and talk about hitting, were on the same page, actually can see things the same way.Heres how, mainly: Neither man is an enthusiastic promoter of the analytics approach. A preacher of balance and instinct, Bonds said: I think you got a bunch of bookworm people who analyze too much and make it all too confusing to a lot of people. Theres just too much unnecessary information.To which Mattingly said: Hes very simple about it, the way he talks about hitting, and I like that.How long will Bonds endure the grind? He wouldnt hazard a guess. Again, the days are long.I couldnt see not giving it a try, being in the trenches, he said. How long it lasts, who knows.He stood up to leave the batting cage, walk toward the bright morning sun.Good luck with the season, he was told.Without turning back, he said, referring to his hitters, They need the luck, not me. He chuckled and added, I dont have to deal with that pressure anymore.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
