In the Brazilian Soccer Market, the Buyers Are Now Chinese - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Soccer|In the Brazilian Soccer Market, the Buyers Are Now Chinese
In the Brazilian Soccer Market, the Buyers Are Now Chinese
The Beijing Guoan soccer club introduced its four newest players, from left, Renato Augusto, Ralf and Kleber from Brazil and Egor Krimets from Uzbekistan.
SO PAULO, Brazil  In this countrys top soccer league, the Brasileiro, team officials are used to the phone calls. They expect them. Agents and executives, middlemen and managers, all of them looking to make a deal in the games greatest shopping mall.
But where once the interest regularly came from Madrid or Milan, these days the voice on the other end of the line, teams say, is more likely to be calling from Beijing or Shanghai. And increasingly, the Chinese suitors are looking to buy only the best.Last year, teams from Chinas Super League bought perhaps the Brasileiros two best players. Last month, Chinese clubs plucked four key players from the reigning champion, Corinthians, and a top striker from So Paulo.
Honing Skills in U.S., a Group of Teenagers Is Fueling Chinas Hockey ShiftJAN. 30, 2016
Manchester City Hires Pep Guardiola as ManagerFEB. 1, 2016
Late Goal Gives U.S. Hope That 2016 Will Be a Brighter YearJAN. 31, 2016
Roundup: Chelsea Will Let John Terry Go After SeasonJAN. 31, 2016
Brazil needs to learn to live with this, said Thiago Scuro, the sporting director of Cruzeiro, which won the Brazilian championship in 2013 and 2014. We were always a target, but whats changed is the big clubs in Europe are taking very young players, to have time to develop them there. But China is signing the star players in their 20s.
Corinthians lost eight players, includingRenato Augusto, holding trophy, from the team that won the Brazilian championship in 2015. Four of the players joined Chinese teams.
We cannot fight this, as its economics, not football.Brazil has always been a net exporter of soccer talent; no country sends more professional players abroad. But Brazils slumping economy and the chronic financial issues plaguing domestic clubs, where it is not uncommon for players to go unpaid for months, have some regarding Chinas current shopping spree as a worrisome asset-stripping of the Brazilian game.The tale of Corinthians is the latest example. Such was the teams dominance last season  Corinthians won the league by 12 points  that the feeling was a South American title and a return to a World Club Cup was a possibility this year. But that was before the team lost eight players.The four highest transfer fees came from China, for a combined $24.5 million. Renato Augusto and Ralf moved to Beijing Guoan; center back Gil (who is making inroads into the national team) joined Shandong Luneng Taishan; and the experienced midfielder Jdson headed to second-division side Tianjin Quanjian. (Chasing promotion to the top flight, Tianjin also snapped up 23-year-old Santos star Geuvnio for $12 million.)
Its not a surprise to lose players when you are champions, but the big surprise was they went to China, said Edu, who starred in Europe with Arsenal and Valencia during his playing days and is now Corinthians sporting director. Its not so frustrating. Its the market. You just have to replace them.Yet Chinese soccers taste for Brazilians shows no sign of slowing. Last week, Chelsea accepted a $35 million offer for the Brazilian midfielder Ramires from Jiangsu Suning, which had earlier made a failed bid for the Milan striker Luiz Adriano. Moves like those, and the bulk acquisitions of younger players from Brazilian clubs, have soccer officials here concerned about what the money-driven deals could one day mean for the future of Brazils national team. Ramires, 28, was a starter at the last World Cup, and while he had fallen out of favor recently, exports like Gil, 28, and Renato Augusto, 27, were thought by some to be part of the Seleos future after their recent resurgence at Corinthians.
With the crisis here, the prices they are offering, we cant compete with that, Edu said of the recent sales. But in terms of a players career, they are going for money, not the status, and for me, that would have made me think twice as it could get in the way of playing for Brazil.Chinese clubs might not release players for national team play except in the mandatory official windows, Edu said, before adding: Its a personal decision, but you need to balance it. And if youre good enough and have the chance to play for Brazil, nothing should get in the way.
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
In one sense, the China conundrum is nothing new. But the earlier Brazilian star Jnior Baiano was already 31 when he went to Shanghai in 2001, and of the 134 reported moves of Brazilians to China from 2003 to 2010, almost all were players from minor clubs.
But last year the Brasileiros two best players  both of them having broken into the national team  made the switch. One, Diego Tardelli, had just won the Brazilian Cup with Atltico Mineiro. The other, Ricardo Goulart, had just won back-to back league championships with Cruzeiro. And the money is only getting better: The onetime Sevilla striker Lus Fabiano left So Paulo for China last month for a salary reported at $7 million a year.
Guangzhou Evergrande could be described as the team that changed the market in 2011, when it signed the Argentine midfielder Daro Conca from the Rio de Janeiro club Fluminense and made him, at the time, the third-highest-paid player in the world behind Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi.Its investments quickly paid off: Guangzhou has won five straight Chinese Super League titles, and it now averages crowds of nearly 46,000 a game. Last summer, the team hired Brazils former World Cup manager, Luiz Felipe Scolari; he quickly delivered Guangzhous second Asian Champions League title in three years.From originally being a real estate company, their owners saw what football could achieve in terms of strengthening their brand, and theyve now gone into other areas like entertainment and bottled water and cooking oil, Chris Atkins, a player agent in China, said. Other clubs have seen, too, the political and marketing gains that can be made by representing a certain city or province with a successful team. People talked about China next up being a steppingstone league, but theyve just skipped that phase.From the Chinese end, the equation is simple. Merely being associated with Brazilian soccer buys a superficial legitimacy as it ponders a potential bid to host the World Cup. For Brazilian pros, its more complicated. Off the record, some players talked about safety as a push factor in their decision to entertain offers from China; research released last month showed 21 of the worlds 50 most dangerous cities were in Brazil. Meanwhile the pull is not simply huge contracts, but clubs that actually honor them.Brazil is struggling as a country, said Ricardo Mello, who works as an intermediary between Brazilian players and Chinese clubs. As the Brazilian real has plummeted in value, he said, the ability to be paid in foreign currency means a lot to players; it can change lives forever.
And for Brazilian teams, transfer fees remain a vital source of revenue. A list of the most indebted clubs in the country has 10 owing at least $63 million, with Flamengo topping the list at more than $150 million. Despite its size and recent successes, Corinthians sits uncomfortably on that list, with debts of around $70 million.While some wonder why European teams are not racing to match Chinas spending in the market, the simple answer seems to be that they do not value the players as highly. Thus, in Brazil, where once there was pride in selling brilliant artists to those who appreciated them, now there is little joy in selling off lesser players at inflated prices.The model here is long broken, said Amir Somoggi, a sports marketing consultant based here. We work on popular governance of teams, not investing into them as companies. And our philosophy is sell, sell, sell.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
