Ines de la Fressange, the New Parisian Shopkeeper - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Fashion & Style|Ines de la Fressange, the New Parisian Shopkeeper
The window display at Ines de la Fressanges store in Paris.
PARIS  I wanted to be like Ines de la Fressange the first time I laid eyes on her.
It was March 1978 and I had just arrived in Paris from Chicago as a foreign correspondent for Newsweek magazine. Covering the ready-to-wear fashion shows was my first assignment.And there was Supermodel de la Fressange, bursting onto the runway like a force of nature. She wasnt like Jerry Hall or Pat Cleveland, both seriously gorgeous and glamorous but too elusive for me. Ms. de la Fressange had the impish look of a coquette and a relaxed gait that enhanced her insouciance. She tossed back her head with abandon when she smiled, made eyes at her favorite photographers and jumped into the crowd to say hello to fashion reporters she knew. She didnt strut on the runway. She owned it, as if it were her own private street.These days, Ms. de la Fressange  former face of Chanel and current face of LOral and Roger Vivier, designer of a new collection for Uniqlo, daughter of a marquis, Legion of Honor recipient and best-selling author  has brought that same confidence to her role as the designer-owner of a Left Bank atelier-boutique that bears her name.
She took over a small decrepit foundry in a 19th-century building on the Rue de Grenelle in St.-Germain-des-Prs and restored it to its original glory. She repaired the skylight; patched and cleaned the parquet floors; and installed bright ceiling spotlights. She left the floor-to-ceiling glass-paned wooden cupboards as they were  even with their chipped black paint.The high-ceilinged space has been packed full of clothing, kitchenware, bedding, jewelry, toys, hardware, garden tools, fake passports, plaid paper straws and a shiny red bicycle stamped with the round logo Ines de la Fressange.You will find the same olive oil from Chteau de Montfrin that she uses at her country home in Provence, pottery in matte white made by a friend in Tunisia, hand-woven cotton pillowcases from a village in Guinea, Andre Jardin brooms and Fifi Chachnil bras. A bouquet of giant brass safety pins sits in a vase; hang one on the wall and it becomes a rack for sunglasses and necklaces (25 euros, or about $27.50). You can spend as little as 4 for a 4-inch nail in dark- or gold-colored hammered metal.
I wanted the feel of a hardware store, Ms. de la Fressange said. You come in looking for a brush but you never know what you might find. Most of the items also are sold on the shops website.A glassed-in area at the back of the shop is reserved for the atelier, where seamstresses use vintage fabrics and colorful modern prints to sew the custom-made and one-of-a-kind clothes sold in the shop. (The limited, numbered editions and larger runs are made in Hungary.)Theyre not made in France; theyre made in Paris! Ms. de la Fressange said.
The clothing and accessories do not come cheap. Unadorned ballerina flats made in Italy are 270; a limited-edition flowered silk shirtdress, 620; a white T-shirt with the Ines logo is 75; and an intricately embroidered skirt, more than 2,000.Perhaps the best clothing buy is an 85 sheer pajama top that doubles as a blouse. (Rihanna bought one). The most creative item is a belted coatdress in a vintage pink metallic silk by Lanvin; the fabric has been turned inside out to reveal its shiny patterned side (850).At 58, Ms. de la Fressange, the onetime muse of Karl Lagerfeld, has a new mantra: no guilt, no stress. She has substituted an electronic cigarette for tobacco (she was a heavy smoker) and taken to meditating every day. On the day I ran into her in her shop, she was dressed in her daytime uniform: jeans, black flat-tie shoes, a white shirt and navy blue cardigan. Her hair was uncombed, her makeup minimal (foundation, a bit of eye shadow and a lot of mascara).Im a shopaholic  now for a good cause, she said. I dont know how to do things very seriously.
A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 2016, in The International New York Times.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
