NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Review: In Scary Old Sex, Arlene Heyman Mines the Details
Step by Step: In her latest novel, A Girls Guide to Moving On  new at No.2 on the hardcover fiction list  Debbie Macomber tells the story of a woman inspired to leave her own unhappy marriage when her daughter-in-law files for divorce; as they fumble toward independence, the two lean on each other for support and grow closer than they ever were as actual relatives. A lot of my books have to do with forgiveness, Macomber has said. I dont know why thats so important to me, but it seems to be a common theme. Macomber is a regular on the fiction list, often for series novels about knitting or Christmas or new beginnings (as this one is, although the only knitting in it involves the tangling of human limbs). But the work didnt always come easy. When I started out 35 years ago, she told a newspaper in Savannah, Ga., recently, I saw a quote from Phyllis Whitney: There has never been an easy time to sell a book. I wanted this more than I ever wanted anything in my life. I got rejected so fast, my manuscripts would hit me in the back of the head on my way back from the post office. But Macomber never gave up. It has a lot to do with stubbornness and desire, she said, adding that she similarly trained herself to run despite a lack of athletic ability. In both cases, It was making myself stick to it until I could do it. It got to the point where it didnt hurt anymore.
Sign up to receive a preview of each Sundays Book Review, delivered to your inbox every Friday.
Reader in Chief: Its not unusual for presidential candidates to spend time on the best-seller lists  of the current crop of White House hopefuls, only Bernie Sanders has never landed there (although he was represented on the paperback graphics list last month, by way of Ted Ralls graphic biography Bernie). Forget how they are as authors, though. How are the candidates as readers? In terms of a passion for literature, anyway, probably not as good as the man they want to replace. Last year, during a memorable two-part interview with the novelist Marilynne Robinson for The New York Review of Books, President Obama declared that reading novels had taught him how to be a citizen. Hillary Clinton, meanwhile, only fleetingly mentions novels in her best-selling memoir Living History: once in reference to a speech by the Whitewater special prosecutor Kenneth Starr (who compared himself to Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird) and once in reference to the movie version of Toni Morrisons Beloved. At least both of those books won the Pulitzer Prize. In Donald Trumps best-selling The Art of the Deal, the only novel cited is Judith Krantzs Ill Take Manhattan, which is set at Trump Tower and features Trump himself as a character. At Judys request, I agreed to play the role of myself in a scene from the mini-series, he writes. I figure its not a bad way to promote Trump Tower  on national television, in a mini-series that runs during sweeps week and is virtually guaranteed to get huge national ratings.
A version of this article appears in print on March 13, 2016, on page BR22 of the Sunday Book Review.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
