U.S. Tourist Killed in Stabbing Rampage Near Tel Aviv - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Middle East|U.S. Tourist Killed in Stabbing Rampage Near Tel Aviv
U.S. Tourist Killed in Stabbing Rampage Near Tel Aviv
A witness described an attack in the ancient port of Jaffa, a suburb of Tel Aviv. Mayor Ron Huldai of Tel Aviv told Army Radio about the attack, saying that a terrorist ran along the boardwalk and on his way he indiscriminately stabbed people, Reuters reported.
RAMALLAH, West Bank  A Palestinian on a stabbing rampage along a coastal promenade near Tel Aviv on Tuesday killed an American tourist, the citys mayor said.The mayor of Tel Aviv-Jaffa, Ron Huldai, said that the attacks occurred along a popular seaside boulevard in Jaffa, about a mile away from where Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was meeting with Israels former president, Shimon Peres.The stabbing attacks, carried out over 20 minutes, came just after Mr. Biden arrived for a two-day visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories, where he is expected to meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority on Wednesday.On Tuesday evening, Mr. Biden was at the Peres Center for Peace in Jaffa, a serene seaside district that adjoins Tel Aviv, when a Palestinian man ran down a popular boulevard attacking groups of people, Israeli media reported.
Deep Rifts Among Israeli Jews Are Found in Religion SurveyMARCH 8, 2016
New Proposal to Divide Jerusalem Unites People Against ItMARCH 6, 2016
A video shot by a witness and posted on YouTube by Haaretz, an Israeli daily newspaper, showed a skinny man wearing a hoodie running down the Jaffa promenade, lunging at passengers in passing vehicles. An unseen person could be heard yelling in Hebrew: Terrorist! Terrorist!The assailant killed a 29-year-old American tourist and critically injured his wife, according to the Israeli news website Ynet, and injured eight others before he was shot dead by the police.The stabbings were part of a day of violence in which five people were killed, including the American tourist, three Palestinian attackers and a 50-year-old Palestinian woman who tried to lunge at security forces with a knife.In addition to Tuesdays victims, a five-month surge in violence has killed nearly 30 Israelis, a Palestinian bystander and an American student. About 180 Palestinians have also been killed, most while attempting attacks, or while suspected of attempting attacks. One of the attackers was a Palestinian-American teenage boy from Tampa, Fla.Israeli media identified the assailant on Tuesday as a 22-year-old Palestinian man from the West Bank. The attack was unusual because it occurred in Jaffa, a celebrated coastal area where Arabs and Jews often mix along the usually crowded seaside boulevards.Earlier in the day, a Palestinian man opened fire on the Israeli police on East Jerusalems main commercial thoroughfare, setting off a gun battle in an area usually crowded with shoppers and schoolchildren. The attacker, identified by Israeli media as Fouad Tamimi, 25, was killed, and two Israeli police officers were wounded.Less than an hour before the shooting, a Palestinian man stabbed a Jewish man in the neck in Petah Tikva, a city near Tel Aviv. The victim pulled the knife out of his own neck and used it to kill his attacker, Israels Channel 2 reported.On Tuesday morning, a 50-year-old Palestinian woman tried to lunge at Israeli security forces in Jerusalems walled Old City with a knife. The woman, who was identified as Fadwa Abu Teir, from a nearby Palestinian village, was shot and killed.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
