Mitt Romney Records Another Anti-Trump Message, This Time for John Kasich - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Politics|Mitt Romney Records Another Anti-Trump Message, This Time for John Kasich
Mitt Romney Records Another Anti-Trump Message, This Time for John Kasich
Mitt Romney gave a blistering speech last week in Salt Lake City in which he denounced Donald J. Trumps presidential candidacy.
LANSING, Mich.  As voters in Michigan go to the polls on Tuesday, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio is getting some help from Mitt Romney, who recorded a get-out-the-vote call for Mr. Kasichs campaign.Mr. Romney spoke out forcefully last week against Donald J. Trump, and he also recorded a phone message for Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who, like Mr. Kasich, is trying to cut into Mr. Trumps support. Mr. Romneys calls are going to Republican voters in Michigan and the three other states voting on Tuesday: Mississippi, Idaho and Hawaii.Mr. Romneys father, George Romney, was Michigans governor, and Mr. Kasich has put significant effort into the state, which borders Ohio. He held a rally at a brewery in Lansing on Tuesday, then planned to return to Ohio, where he will spend primary night.
Mitt Romney Records Phone Message for Marco Rubios CampaignMARCH 7, 2016
The call recorded by Mr. Romney on Mr. Kasichs behalf is virtually identical to the one he recorded for Mr. Rubio. It focuses on undermining Mr. Trump, rather than making a case for Mr. Kasich.
Heres the latest news and analysis of the candidates and issues shaping the presidential race.
Ted Cruzs Prospects Ascendant, Though Perhaps Not With Senate Peers
Hillary Clinton Ad Derides Companies Moving Overseas
Fox News Forum May Signal Thaw Between Democrats and Network
What Were Watching as 4 States Vote and Both Parties Court Michigan
Mitt Romney Records Phone Message for Marco Rubios Campaign
These are critical times that demand a serious, thoughtful commander in chief, Mr. Romney says in the message. If we Republicans were to choose Donald Trump as our nominee, the prospects for a safe and prosperous future would be greatly diminished, and Im convinced Donald Trump would lose to Hillary Clinton.Asked if he agreed with Mr. Romneys assertion about how the countrys future would be affected by Mr. Trump being the nominee, Mr. Kasich put some distance between himself and the phone message.Governor Romneys kind of recording robocalls for everyone, and I didnt want somebody to think that he favored one person over me, because he doesnt, Mr. Kasich told reporters after the rally in Lansing. So, you know, its his words. I dont write his scripts.
Reminded that his own campaign paid for the calls, he responded, We want to make sure people dont think that Romneys for somebody else and not for me, particularly in the state of Michigan.So is this the scenario that I would have liked to have had it work out like this? Not really, he added. But it is what it is.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
