NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
My father went with me to the used-car lot on a summer day before my senior year in high school. We paid $1,995, from savings left to me after my mother’s death, for a 1994 Nissan Maxima.
It was an odd shade of brown, with a thin gold stripe painted along the body, and it had a small exhaust leak, which made the engine loud. Still, it was mine.Almost immediately, the car had issues. The alarm went off whenever you unlocked the driver’s door because of an electrical problem that, I was told, would cost almost as much to fix as I had paid for the car.This resulted in two solutions: Either I had to unlock the driver’s door and quickly start the engine (to stop the blaring horn and flashing lights), or I would have to unlock the passenger-side door (which did not trigger the alarm) and climb toward the driver’s seat.It was a typical high school car. It was imperfect, a bit of a wreck and I loved it.During the school year, Capital University, in Bexley, Ohio, recruited me to play soccer. At 17, with an offer from a college a few miles from my father’s house, I didn’t really consider what it would be like to exist as black in a community that had managed to keep itself white.So in the late summer of 2001, before the start of my freshman year in college, I stepped onto the field for a preseason practice session as the first American-born player of color in the soccer program’s history.By that time I had learned to deal with the Nissan’s quirks; I decided whether or not to endure the burst of the car’s alarm depending on the area I was in. If I found myself in a place where my existence might raise suspicion, I chose the safer but more difficult route of going in through the passenger door.On a September night, eager to escape a house imprisoned by a thick cloud of body heat and drink, I skipped out of a college party and rushed to my car. I slid the key into the driver’s door. But before turning it, I checked the street: the towering and expensive homes, the paved sidewalks, the darkness and silence.I opted for what my father would say was the smarter choice: I went in through the passenger-side door. The engine let out a rumble that cut through the suburban night. As I pulled away from the curb, I saw the flashing lights of a police car.
The story of a key event in a man’s life, with a different writer each time.
Making Sense of a Father’s Death (With Baudelaire’s Help)
What Steve Jobs Taught Me About Being a Son and a Father
I spend a lot of time trying to pinpoint how fear is learned. Or, rather, how we decide that fear is a necessary animal that grows out of our expectation to survive at all costs, and how I have been afraid and feared at the same time.
Get lifestyle news from the Style, Travel and Food sections, from the latest trends to news you can use.
When I reflect, I think the fact that I had gone 17 years without having developed a direct fear of the police meant I was lucky.I knew the warnings from my father: Don’t go on a run at night, don’t reach into your pockets too quickly, be polite in front of them. And I had seen the police make life difficult for other people in my home neighborhood, and yet I never learned to be afraid.Until this early fall night in 2001, with its unseasonable cold, the Midwest wind like daggers.
Bexley sits on the east side of Columbus. A small and flourishing mostly white suburb, it is sandwiched by two significantly poorer, mostly black neighborhoods. One of these is where I grew up.When you are asked to step out of a car that you own, your body no longer belongs to you, but instead to the lights drowning it. There are two sides of the night that you can end up on: one where you see the sunrise again and one where you do not. You may not consider this in the moment.That particular night, the police officers — first two, and then three more — were responding to a call of suspicious behavior. I was asked to exit my car before I was asked for ID. When I mentioned that this was my own vehicle, I was silenced and held by two officers while the others huddled around a squad car.When I was finally asked to produce ID, I reached into a pocket, only to remember that it was in the book bag I had left in the trunk. I moved to get it. That’s when I was grabbed and forcefully held down in the grass.People who had been watching out of windows now emerged from their homes. I wondered which one of them had called the police. I thought about my pants, a pair of new Old Navy jeans purchased with money I had gotten as a graduation gift, now stained with grass, and I thought about how much they had cost me.I thought about how much the car had cost me. How much it had cost me to get here, to Bexley, just five miles away from a neighborhood that no one from the nearby homes would venture to. But mostly I thought about how I perhaps owned nothing. Not even my hands, now pressed behind my back.I was eventually pulled up from the grass after what felt like hours, but must have been about five minutes. My car ransacked, my book bag’s contents scattered across the otherwise empty street.A police officer stared at my face, stared at my ID, and he mumbled: “Interesting name. Sorry for the trouble.”After the officers were gone, I sat on the curb and watched my hands shake. No one who lived in the nearby homes offered to help or asked if I was O.K.I didn’t hate the police that night. Even today, while being critical of the institution of police and systems of policing, I feel no hatred toward the men and women themselves.I have had many interactions with police officers since then, some better, a few just as bad. But I go into each one expecting to fear and to be feared. And when I see the news of another unarmed person’s death, I wonder how their stories began.If they began something like mine.
Hanif Willis-Abdurraqib is a poet from Columbus, Ohio.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
