N.H.L. This Week: Opportunities to Move Up in Division Races - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Hockey|N.H.L. This Week: Opportunities to Move Up in Division Races
N.H.L. This Week: Opportunities to Move Up in Division Races
Justin Williams, celebrating his game-winning goal against the Islanders last month, left Los Angeles as a free agent last summer but will return to the city on Wednesday as a key member of the Capitals.
Every Tuesday, The New York Times will look at the week ahead in the N.H.L., highlighting hot  or not so hot  teams and players. (All times Eastern.)
Games to WatchBruins at Lightning, Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.Boston is not going to be left out of the Atlantic Division race. After defeating Florida in overtime on Monday night on a goal by the deadline acquisition Lee Stempniak, the Bruins head to Tampa with a shot at first place. With 81 points, Boston and Florida are only one point behind first-place Tampa Bay, whose winning streak ended at nine games after a loss to Philadelphia on Monday.Penguins vs. Metropolitan DivisionThe schedule is lined up for Pittsburgh to make a move in the standings. Tuesdays game against the Islanders in Brooklyn (7:30 p.m., NBCSN) is the second of nine in a row against Metro opponents for the Penguins. That stretch includes a nationally televised game against the Rangers on Sunday afternoon (12:30 p.m., NBC).Capitals at Kings, Wednesday, 10:30 p.m.A pair of reunions will take place at Staples Center on Wednesday, one more awkward than the other. Washingtons visit to Los Angeles takes Justin Williams and Mike Richards back to the arena where they helped the Kings win two Stanley Cups. Williams, a frequent Game 7 hero in Los Angeles, left as a free agent last summer and has become a key cog for the Capitals, who have the best record in the N.H.L. But Richards was banished to the minors by the Kings, then had his contract terminated after he was arrested and charged with possession of a controlled substance in June. In 23 games since signing with Washington in January, Richards has one goal and one assist.Central Division ShowdownsThe Blackhawks (87 points), the Stars (87) and the Blues (85) are bunched tightly in the Central Division standings and play one another this week, starting with Chicagos visit to St. Louis on Wednesday. It is a particularly important week for Dallas. The Stars have won two in a row, but only three of their last 10, giving up 3.8 goals per game in that span. Dallas is a middling 9-6-2 since the All-Star break and has recently been without John Klingberg, Patrick Sharp, Patrick Eaves and Jordie Benn because of injuries and illness. The Stars face Chicago and St. Louis in back-to-back games Friday and Saturday.In Case You Missed ItOn Monday, the N.H.L. announced that the Winnipeg Jets would host the fourth Heritage Classic outdoor game, against the Edmonton Oilers on Oct. 23.The announcement provided an opportunity to look back at the rivalry between the teams. The Jets and the Oilers came to the N.H.L. together in 1979, but were already rivals from the World Hockey Association. The W.H.A. lasted only from 1972 to 1979, with Winnipeg winning three championships and reaching the final five times. The last game of the W.H.A. was a 7-3 Jets victory over the Oilers, who featured Wayne Gretzky.The alumni game before the Heritage Classic is expected to include Gretzky, Mark Messier, Jari Kurri and Paul Coffey for the Oilers and Dale Hawerchuk and Teemu Selanne for the Jets.
Sharks goalie Martin Jones, who has started 15 of the teams last 17 games, stopped a shot by the Canucks Sven Baertschi on Feb. 28.
Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press, via Associated Press
Lost in the surge of the Anaheim Ducks to the top of the Pacific Division has been the San Jose Sharks rise in the standings.The Sharks are 18-5-4 since Jan. 9, when they were in fifth place in the Pacific and tied for the second fewest points in the Western Conference. They entered Tuesdays games in third in the Pacific, 4 points behind the Kings and 5 behind the Ducks.Goaltender Martin Jones, 26, was a question mark going into this season, his first as an N.H.L. starter. But he has held up to the scrutiny.Jones, a Vancouver native, has been connected to hockey for quite some time. His father, Harvey, is the vice president for arena operations with the Canucks and oversaw the construction of Rogers Arena.Martin Jones made his N.H.L. debut in 2013 as the Kings were dealing with an injury to Jonathan Quick. Jones won his first eight starts, with three shutouts, helping the Kings withstand Quicks missing 33 regular-season games. Los Angeles eventually won the Stanley Cup.Jones remained behind Quick last season, but was traded to the Bruins last summer in the deal that sent Milan Lucic to the Kings. Four days later, Jones was back in the Pacific Division, after being sent to San Jose.He has compiled a 33-17-4 record with a .919 save percentage and a 2.29 goals-against average. Coach Peter DeBoer has leaned heavily on Jones of late. He has started 15 of the teams last 17 games, though the Sharks acquired James Reimer from Toronto at the trade deadline to be the backup.Jones had a 33-save shutout against the Blackhawks last month, but that performance was topped Monday by a 47-save victory against Calgary.He was unbelievable; huge save after huge save and he was there for the routine ones, defenseman Brent Burns said. Hes been playing amazing. Hes so poised. Thats huge for confidence.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
