Officer in Ramarley Graham Shooting Wont Face U.S. Charges - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
N.Y. / Region|Officer in Ramarley Graham Shooting Wont Face U.S. Charges
Officer in Ramarley Graham Shooting Wont Face U.S. Charges
A familys four-year quest to hold a white New York City police officer criminally accountable for
the fatal shooting an unarmed black teenager in the bathroom of his Bronx home ended on Tuesday, when federal prosecutors said there was not enough evidence to pursue criminal charges.
The family of the teenager, Ramarley Graham, has waged a public battle, pressing for Officer Richard Haste, who shot Mr. Graham, to be held to account.Officer Haste had been indicted in state court for the shooting, but the manslaughter charges were thrown out because of a prosecutorial error. A second grand jury then declined to indict him.The shooting of Mr. Graham preceded the death of Eric Garner on a Staten Island street, occurring before an unarmed black man was shot and killed by a police officer in Ferguson, Mo., and before the nations attention was focused on the use of force by law enforcement officers and their relationship with black people in the communities they police.Mr. Grahams family had expressed hope that Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, would bring a civil rights case against the officer. Mr. Grahams parents, after meeting with Mr. Bharara at his office on Tuesday, revealed at a news conference that they had been told there would be no prosecution.Mr. Bharara confirmed it in a detailed statement issued a short time later.Neither accident, mistake, fear, negligence nor bad judgment is sufficient to establish a federal criminal civil rights violation, Mr. Bhararas statement said.In the end, according to prosecutors, although Mr. Graham was unarmed, there are no witness accounts or physical evidence that materially contradict Officer Hastes statement that Mr. Graham appeared to be pulling something from his waistband at the time of the shooting.The city ultimately agreed to pay the family $3.9 million to settle a wrongful-death suit.Mr. Grahams mother, Constance Malcolm, who was surrounded by supporters as she stood in front of the United States attorneys office, called the decision by the federal prosecutor another slap in the face.In the justice system, Ms. Malcolm said, it doesnt seem like our kids life matters.Time and time again, you see it over and over, she continued, this officer walks free, they get a pay raise, they get a promotion and nothing has been done to them. This is sending the wrong message. Even in your own home, youre not even safe anymore.The episode unfolded on the afternoon of Feb. 2, 2012, when officers in a narcotics unit spotted Mr. Graham, 18, on a street in the Wakefield section of the Bronx.Video evidence from a nearby business shows Mr. Graham adjusting the front of his pants as he walked northbound on White Plains Road near the bodega, Mr. Bhararas statement said.The officers were suspicious of the way Mr. Graham moved his hands and thought he might be armed, according to the statement.When Mr. Graham walked away, the officers, from the Street Narcotics Enforcement Unit of the 47th Precinct, followed him to his familys home.
As Mr. Graham opened the front door, an unmarked police vehicle quickly pulled up and stopped near the front of the house, Mr. Bhararas statement said. As Officer Haste and another officer exited the vehicle, Mr. Graham looked in the direction of the officers and then quickly stepped inside the house and closed the front door.Officer Haste ran up to the front door and found it locked.He then unsuccessfully attempted to kick the door open, according to the statement.The officers went to the back of the house and gained access. Officer Haste made his way to the second floor.The evidence establishes that Officer Haste advanced into the hallway of the apartment with his firearm drawn, where he encountered Mr. Graham, Mr. Bharara said.Officer Haste told investigators that he ordered Mr. Graham to show his hands. Instead, according to his account, the teenager moved into an adjacent bathroom.At this critical moment in time, no other witness present in the apartment, including Mr. Grahams grandmother, had a view of Mr. Graham, according to the statement. Officer Haste stated that he believed that Mr. Graham was reaching for the weapon that had been described in the earlier radio transmission, and that he fired one round from his weapon in response to a perceived deadly threat.It turned out that Mr. Graham was not armed. A bag of marijuana was found in the toilet bowl, but no gun was found at the scene.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
