Police Shooting of Oregon Occupier Declared Justified, but F.B.I. Faces Inquiry - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|Police Shooting of Oregon Occupier Declared Justified, but F.B.I. Faces Inquiry
Police Shooting of Oregon Occupier Declared Justified, but F.B.I. Faces Inquiry
LaVoy Finicum at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in January.
DENVER  Investigators said Tuesday that Oregon state officers acted properly when they shot and killed LaVoy Finicum, one of the activists occupying a wildlife refuge in Oregon, but federal officials have opened an inquiry into the actions of F.B.I. agents for not disclosing that they also fired shots during the confrontation.
The investigators based their conclusions in part on a dramatic, previously undisclosed videotape taken from one of the occupants of Mr. Finicums car, which showed him taunting officers and daring them repeatedly to shoot me.Finicum was killed Jan. 26 after the authorities tried to apprehend him at a police blockade outside the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge.Of particular concern to all of us, said Sheriff Shane Nelson of Deschutes County, was that the F.B.I. agents did not disclose their shots to investigators.
25 Plead Not Guilty in Standoff at the Oregon Wildlife RefugeFEB. 24, 2016
LaVoy Finicum: I Would Rather Die Than Be CagedJAN. 27, 2016
Sheriff Nelson said neither of the shots by the F.B.I. struck Mr. Finicum. Investigators said Mr. Finicum was instead shot and killed by three rounds fired by Oregon state officers, all of which struck him in the back. The Malheur County district attorney, Dan Norris, said that all six shots fired by Oregon officers, including the three that hit Mr. Finicum, were justified.
The fatal shooting of LaVoy Finicum, one of the armed protesters who took over a federal wildlife refuge in Oregon in January, was justified and necessary according to officials.
While the findings are a relief to the local troopers, the F.B.I. agents on the scene face serious questions. F.B.I. agents from the hostage and rescue team were interviewed by investigators immediately after the shooting and again about 10 days later, but on both occasions they denied having fired any shots. Investigators said they ultimately concluded that two of the shots  one hitting the truck  must have come from one of the F.B.I. agents, whose identity is still unknown to investigators.Once investigators learned last month of the failure of the agents to disclose their full role, investigators in Washington were immediately summoned to Oregon to begin investigating possible impropriety, officials said. The federal inquiry will be done by the Justice Department inspector generals office along with the United States attorneys office in Oregon.Greg Bretzing, the special agent in charge of the Oregon office, declined to say Tuesday whether any of the F.B.I. agents involved in the episode had been placed on leave.The video released Tuesday was taken by Ms. Cox, and covers the moments before Mr. Finicums death.In the recording, Mr. Finicum sits in the drivers seat of a truck, wearing a cowboy hat. While stopped, he heckles authorities. You do as you damn well please, were not going anywhere, he yelled. You can go ahead and shoot me, put the bullet through the head.Pop music plays in the background. Then Mr. Finicum is seen driving away from troopers, and the passengers attempt to crouch down and make phone calls. The camera shakes, and three shots are heard. The vehicle then stops after veering off the road and hitting a snowbank. Mr. Finicum gets out and the video captures his words: Go ahead and shoot me. Youre going to have to shoot me.
In January, Mr. Finicum, 54, was one of the first people to occupy the refuge, an 188,000-acre bird sanctuary just outside Burns, Ore., that is run by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.Mr. Finicum and other leaders of the occupation, including two brothers, Ammon and Ryan Bundy, initially said they were protesting the prison sentences of two local ranchers who had been convicted of lighting fires that spread to federal land.
Ammon Bundy and Shawna Cox during the occupation at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in January.
Others joined the activists at the refuge and the group began to call on the government to relinquish control of all federal lands. Many occupiers affiliated themselves with the so-called patriot movement, a loosely organized group that includes various militias and others who oppose the idea of a strong federal government.On Jan. 26, Mr. Finicum, the Bundy brothers, and several other occupation leaders left the refuge in two vehicles, headed to a meeting in a nearby city, John Day, where they hoped to rally supporters. But the state police and the F.B.I. had set up a blockade. As officers tried to arrest them, Mr. Finicum was killed. A video released by the bureau showed Mr. Finicum stopping his vehicle, then speeding away only to end up in a ditch near a roadblock. He then got out of his vehicle, waving his arms and reaching toward his pocket. The police later said that Mr. Finicum was carrying a loaded 9 mm handgun.More than two dozen occupiers were eventually arrested and face federal conspiracy charges.Two witnesses to the Jan. 26 episode, Shawna Cox, 59, and Victoria Sharp, 18, have said that they believe the killing of Mr. Finicum was unjust, and that he was holding his hands in the air in surrender. Ms. Sharp has said she heard shots hit the truck where she was holed up.I was a witness, I saw what happened, said Ms. Cox in a telephone interview shortly before the investigators announcement. They murdered him.The occupation ended on Feb. 11, when the last four protesters left the bird sanctuary and turned themselves in to the F.B.I. But occupiers and their sympathizers have gathered since, holding rallies in Portland, Salt Lake City, Bend, Ore., and elsewhere, protesting Mr. Finicums death, the arrest of other occupiers, and the arrest of Cliven Bundy, a prominent leader of the anti-government movement.
Julie Turkewitz reported from Denver and Eric Lichtblau from Washington.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
