Faces in the Chanel Crowd: Wendi Deng and Pharrell Williams - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Fashion & Style|Faces in the Chanel Crowd: Wendi Deng and Pharrell Williams
Faces in the Chanel Crowd: Wendi Deng and Pharrell Williams
Pharrell Williams at the Chanel fall 2016 show in Paris.
PARIS  Around the time Rupert Murdoch married wife No. 4, the former model Jerry Hall, Wendi Deng (wife No. 3) was a near-ubiquitous presence at Paris Fashion Week.On Saturday, Ms. Deng was in the front row at Nina Ricci, seated next to Anna Wintour, then again on Sunday at Cline and Givenchy (where Ms. Wintour reminded Ms. Deng and Bradley Cooper, another seat mate, that they had met each other at the Met Gala in New York), Monday at Saint Laurent and Giambattista Valli, and Tuesday morning at Chanel.
Anna Wintour, left, and Wendi Deng in the front row at the Cline fall 2016 show.
I dont usually come to Paris for fashion week, but I decided to this weekend, Ms. Deng said at the Chanel show, where the designer Karl Lagerfeld had turned the Grand Palais into a showroom the size of nearly four football fields, each person assigned a front-row seat in a maze that created something of an obstacle course for the models.
John Oliver Sells Out of Make Donald Drumpf Again Caps
Auction of Joan Riverss Penthouse Belongings Set for Christies
Warhol and Avedon Form an Unlikely Tandem in London
Void Left by Peyton Manning May Be Larger for N.F.L. Than for Broncos
Its been such fun, I cant tell you, she said. The standout shows for me have been Givenchy and also Saint Laurent last night, which was simply incredible.Hedi gave us beautiful party dresses in a simply gorgeous setting, she said, referring to Hedi Slimane of Saint Laurent.Ms. Deng pronounced herself a major fan of Chanel  a statement supported by the fact that she was dressed in the label from head to toe  and added that she had dinner with Mr. Lagerfeld while in town. He really is just the most energetic and creative man and so interesting to talk to, she said before Cindi Leive, the editor of Glamour, walked over for a few words.Several aisles over, hordes of paparazzi seemed on the verge of punches in the hopes of getting in a better position to photograph Pharrell Williams, who was enthusiastically greeting Jonathan Newhouse, chief executive of Cond Nast International, while Willow Smith, Stella Tennant, Caroline de Maigret and Ines de la Fressange sat close by. Mr. Williams had newly blond hair, which appeared to match his sunny disposition, even when the scrum continued post-show.It was just amazing; it was like being hit by a barrage of creativity and not at all how I expected, the singer said as he tried to shuffle backstage. Ive worked with Karl on projects before, so I know hes the real deal.Ive seen the ideas when they are sketched out onto the page and how rapidly those visions come to fruition, he continued. Its like magic. Hes the definition of creative with elegance.
Check out our complete Paris Fashion Week coverage here.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
