A Child-Friendly Pasta Bake the Adults Will Love - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Food|A Child-Friendly Pasta Bake the Adults Will Love
Melissa Clark updates the pasta casserole with fontina cheese and wild mushrooms.
Pasta with wild mushrooms and rosemary is an elegant dish, the kind of thing you’d see at restaurants or maybe make yourself as dinner-party fare.But take that same pasta, smother it with fontina and ricotta cheeses, plop it into a casserole dish and bake it until the edges crisp, the top turns golden and the center collapses into a molten mass, and you’ve turned what was once refined and genteel into a supremely comforting, kid-pleasing dish that’s still sophisticated enough to serve to guests.This is exactly what I’ve done here. I’ve upped the ante on a standard yet irresistibly gooey pasta bake by adding roasted wild mushrooms and creamy, funky fontina cheese.Roasting the mushrooms, in particular, lends this dish its earthy, heady charm. Mushrooms are mostly water, and cooking them at high heat condenses their flavor, caramelizes their sugars and gives them crunchy edges.
This technique works with any kind of mushroom. Even the plain white button kind available in every supermarket will gain intensity and character when tossed with olive oil and exposed to searing temperatures.
That said, the better and more interesting your mushrooms are to start with, the tastier they will become after roasting.
Wild mushrooms — or the so-called wild ones you can find in many markets that are actually farmed — are an excellent choice in terms of both flavor and texture. Oyster mushrooms (maitake, chanterelles and the like) have lots of nooks and crevices, which allow them to get even more delectably crispy than the more evenly rotund creminis and white buttons. You can also use a mix of different mushrooms.
Follow NYT Food's board The Best of Melissa Clark on Pinterest.
As for the cheese, I chose fontina for its lusciousness when melted. But other good melting cheeses — Gruyère, Cheddar, Gouda — will work. And the ricotta adds a milky creaminess that rounds out the dish.Another reason to make this, besides the universal browned, gooey appeal of a baked pasta casserole, is that you can do it almost entirely in advance. You can roast the mushrooms, cook the pasta and even assemble the entire dish up to eight hours ahead. Just pop it into the oven right before serving, adding a few minutes to the cooking time if it’s still cold from the fridge.Then serve it forth — to your most stylish, urbane dinner guests and to your kids. This is one pasta casserole they will all get behind.Recipes: Baked Cheesy Pasta Casserole With Wild Mushrooms | More Casseroles
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
