Philippine Court Clears Way for Senator Grace Poe to Run for President - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Asia Pacific|Philippine Court Clears Way for Senator Grace Poe to Run for President
Philippine Court Clears Way for Senator Grace Poe to Run for President
Senator Grace Poe, with arm extended, was surrounded by supporters when she arrived at the Supreme Court of the Philippines in January.
MANILA  The Supreme Court of the Philippines on Tuesday ruled that a popular senator, seen by some as likely to carry forward the policies of President Benigno S. Aquino III, is eligible to run for the presidency.Senator Grace Poe, the adopted daughter of one of the countrys most famous movie stars, has consistently ranked among the most popular of the candidates. In December, the Commission on Elections disqualified her after complaints claimed that she was a United States citizen and had not lived in the Philippines long enough to run.According to Ms. Poes account, she was abandoned on the doorstep of a church on the central Philippine island of Panay in 1968 and was adopted by the movie star Fernando Poe Jr.
30 Years After Revolution, Some Filipinos Yearn for Golden Age of MarcosFEB. 23, 2016
Philippine Supreme Court Approves Return of U.S. TroopsJAN. 12, 2016
Philippines President Endorses Mar Roxas as SuccessorJULY 31, 2015
As Pope Francis Visits Philippines, Tensions Between Church and Government SurfaceJAN. 16, 2015
Obamas Strategic Shift to Asia Is Hobbled by Pressure at Home and Crises AbroadAPRIL 21, 2014
She later moved to the United States, where she obtained citizenship and lived for several years before returning to the Philippines and entering politics. In 2013, she surprised many people in the country by running for the Senate and winning with more than 20 million votes  the highest number among the more than 30 candidates.Ms. Poe has said she formally renounced her United States citizenship and established residency in the Philippines in time to run for president, but her candidacy has been dogged by allegations that she is ineligible. The countrys Constitution says that candidates must have been a resident for 10 years and be a natural-born citizen. There are multiple disputed versions of when Ms. Poe established residency and whether as a foundling she is legally a natural-born citizen or a naturalized citizen.In recent public opinion surveys, Ms. Poe has been tied for the lead in the presidential race with Vice President Jejomar Binay. At stake in the election is the continuation of policies introduced by the Aquino administration that have resulted in strong economic growth, praise from international organizations on anticorruption efforts and steady upgrades by investment ratings agencies.Mr. Aquino endorsed former Interior Secretary Mar Roxas as his chosen successor and asked Ms. Poe to run as vice president. She declined the offer and began an independent bid for the presidency that embraces many of the policies of the Aquino administration.Mr. Binay, her closest rival, is an outspoken critic of Mr. Aquino. In the Philippines, the president and vice president are elected separately, and it is not uncommon for the two officeholders to be political opponents. Mr. Binay has signaled that he will change many of the Aquino administrations policies. He has said that Mr. Aquino has failed to spread economic prosperity to the countrys poor, has been slow to build infrastructure and has been unnecessarily confrontational with China over territorial disputes in the South China Sea.Mr. Binay is under investigation by the countrys anticorruption investigator, the Office of the Ombudsman, over allegations that he benefited from money siphoned from a public building project in Makati, near Manila. He has denied the allegations, which he said were concocted by the Aquino administration to derail his presidential bid.A statement from the Supreme Court did not provide details on the justices thinking in Tuesdays decision but said the vote was 9-6 in favor of Ms. Poe. The presidential election will be held May 9.
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day with the Todays Headlines: Asian Morning newsletter. Sign up here.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
