Prudential of Britain Hires New C.E.O. for Asset Management Business - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
DealBook|Prudential of Britain Hires New C.E.O. for Asset Management Business
Prudential of Britain Hires New C.E.O. for Asset Management Business
LONDON  The British insurer Prudential said on Monday that it had hired the chief investment officer of Aberdeen Asset Management to serve as the new top executive of its asset management business, M&G; Investments.Anne H. Richards is expected to succeed Michael McLintock as the chief executive of M&G; following his retirement later this year, Prudential said. Her appointment would be subject to regulatory approval, said the insurer, which has no relationship with the United States company with a similar name..Mr. McLintock has been chief executive of M&G; since 1997 and continued in the role after its acquisition by Prudential in March 1999. He first joined M&G; in 1992.I am delighted that a person of Annes talent is joining the group and I look forward to working with her, Mike Wells, the Prudential chief executive said in a news release. Anne will be able to deploy her leadership skills and exceptional knowledge of the global asset management industry to provide the best possible outcomes for our customers, clients and shareholders.Mr. Wells himself succeeded Tidjane Thiam as Prudentials chief executive in June after Mr. Thiam moved to Credit Suisse to serve as its top executive.At Aberdeen, Ms. Richards is chief investment officer and oversees its operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.Ms. Richards was named chief investment officer of Edinburgh Fund Managers in 2002 and continued in the role following its acquisition by Aberdeen in 2003. She previously worked as an analyst for Alliance Capital in portfolio management roles at JPMorgan Chase and Mercury Asset Management.I am delighted that I have the opportunity to lead M&G;, which is a world-class business, Ms. Richards said. I look forward to working with the team to continue building the business and leading the next phase of M&G;s development.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
