Accara Offers a Taste of Senegal in Fried Form - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Food|Accara Offers a Taste of Senegal in Fried Form
Not far from the Place des Vosges in Paris, on a side street called the Rue Elzvir, there is a restaurant called Le Petit Dakar. Its where I first tasted thieboudienne, the soul-warming national dish of Senegal, a rich, spicy and deeply flavored mix of rice, vegetables and fish. I loved the complexity of the dish and the atmosphere of the place. It made me want to hop the next plane to Dakar.I still havent made that visit to Senegal, but my interest in its cuisine has been reignited lately as I cook my way through the chef Pierre Thiams latest book, Senegal: Modern Senegalese Recipes From the Source to the Bowl.For years, Mr. Thiam, who grew up in Dakar, had a restaurant in Brooklyn called Le Grand Dakar, which became a cultural gathering spot for West African New Yorkers. While he obviously cherishes the traditional comfort foods of his youth in Senegal, he likes to bring in bright elements from elsewhere: Asia, North Africa, the Middle East and Brooklyn.
Eat: The Generosity in Senegalese StewJAN. 28, 2016
His recipe for deep-fried black-eyed pea fritters, called accara, is a good example. Throughout West Africa, accara are a street-food snack served with a smear of kani, a fiery scotch-bonnet pepper sauce. For a more substantial meal, the accara are stuffed into a baguette with tomato, lettuce and onion.
Mr. Thiam, noting the fritters similarity to falafel, makes his accara sandwich in pita bread instead. He replaces the kani sauce with a Vietnamese-style spicy carrot pickle he learned to make from his Vietnamese godfather.
The accara are absolutely delicious and easy to make. The only fiddly bit is rubbing the skins off the black-eyed peas (soaking them in hot water helps). The batter is quickly made in a food processor, then spoonfuls of it are shallow-fried. And while they do look a bit like falafel (made from ground chickpeas), they taste much lighter and noticeably, delectably beanier.
Whether you eat them hot as cocktail tidbits or put them on a bun, make sure you have something spicy to go with them (the spicier the better), whether its his pickled carrots, a hot green chutney or a dab of Tunisian harissa.Recipes: Spicy Pickled Carrots | Black-Eyed Pea Fritters
Follow NYT Food's board The Best of David Tanis on Pinterest.
A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2016, on page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Up From the Streets of Senegal.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
