Serena Williams Says Sharapovas Announcement Surprised Her - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Tennis|Serena Williams Says Sharapovas Announcement Surprised Her
Serena Williams Says Sharapovas Announcement Surprised Her
Serena Williams spoke at a news conference on Tuesday at Madison Square Garden before her exhibition match with Caroline Wozniacki.
Serena Williams may soon become the richest endorser in womens tennis, if only by default.
Williams frequently comes in second to Sharapova on lists of the highest-paid female athletes. But Sharapova now faces a suspension and loss of sponsorship from several companies after she announced Monday that she had tested positive for meldonium, a banned substance.Williams would not second-guess Nike, her own longtime endorser, for reexamining its relationship with Sharapova.Theyre successful. They make their own decisions, Williams said Tuesday, before an exhibition match at Madison Square Garden against her good friend Caroline Wozniacki. They obviously know how to make decisions.
Maria Sharapova Admits Taking Meldonium, Drug Newly Banned by TennisMARCH 7, 2016
All About Meldonium, the Banned Drug Used by SharapovaMARCH 8, 2016
Williams and Sharapova have been two of Nikes most visible spokeswomen in recent years. Last year, Sharapova reportedly earned $23 million in endorsements, while Williamss total was around $13 million. Sharapova has won five major titles to Williamss 21. Nike, along with TAG Heuer and Porsche, quickly suspended ties with Sharapova after her news conference Monday.Williams expressed her surprise at Sharapovas announcement.Like everyone else, most people were surprised and shocked, she said. But most people are happy with the fact she was upfront with what she had done in terms of what she had neglected. With that being said, shes taking responsibility, which she was ready to do.While sympathetic toward Sharapova, Williams did not ask tennis officials to extend any special treatment toward the Russian. She also did not think Sharapova would face unfairly harsh treatment as a female player. Sharapova is, by far, the most prominent female tennis player to test positive for a performance-enhancing drug.In sport and in life, theres always a double standard, Williams said. Everyone knows that, whether its a race thing or sex thing. However, this is a different thing. As Maria said, shes ready to take responsibility. And that takes courage and heart.Sharapova, who will be provisionally suspended from all tennis tournaments beginning Saturday, could face anything from a slap on the wrist to a lengthy ban. Sharapova said that she failed to check the updated banned substances list for 2016, which included meldonium for the first time. Sharapova said she had taken the drug for health reasons since 2006.According to Wozniacki, it is nusual for a player not to be up-to-date on the banned list.Any time we take any medication, we double- and triple-check, Wozniacki said. Sometimes even a thing like cough drops and nasal spray can be on the list. So as athletes we make sure not to take something that would put us in a bad situation.Based on Sharapovas admission, Williams played against her quite often while Sharapova was using the drug. Williams has defeated Sharapova 18 times in a row and would not say Tuesday that she faced a disadvantage in any of those matches.I dont think Im the best person to ask that question, Williams said.
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
It was a day of celebration and reflection among tennis insiders, still trying to digest Sharapovas announcement. The International Tennis Hall of Fame announced that Justine Henin and Marat Safin would be inducted in July, becoming the first players from Belgium and Russia to attain that status.Henin faced Sharapova 10 times from 2005 to 2010, defeating her in seven of those matches.Its not nice what happened, Henin said. Not good for the game and not good for Maria at the moment. Were not in position to judge. Some questions need to be asked and its hard to give an opinion. But rules have to be followed.Safin said he hoped that Sharapovas admission about meldonium was a technical mistake.I dont think its intentional, he said. I want to believe so.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
