SAG Win for ‘Spotlight’ Sows Confusion in the Best Picture Race - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Movies|SAG Win for ‘Spotlight’ Sows Confusion in the Best Picture Race
SAG Win for ‘Spotlight’ Sows Confusion in the Best Picture Race
Leonardo DiCaprio and Brie Larson with their SAG trophies on Saturday night.
The Screen Actors Guild Awards were handed out over the weekend and managed in one fell swoop to both clarify and muddy the Oscars race.On the clarity front: Leonardo DiCaprio (“The Revenant”) and Brie Larson (“Room”) continued their king and queen of the prom awards-season sweep, with each collecting a SAG Award for the first time. At this stage of the game, if they don’t go on to win Oscars, many hats with be eaten en masse.The belle of the ball, Alicia Vikander (“The Danish Girl”), landed best supporting actress, making her Academy prospects rosier than ever. The Bagger dares say only Rooney Mara (“Carol”) stands in her way.And, while the guild’s best supporting actor winner has gone on to the land that Oscar the past 7 of 10 years, the chances of year’s winner, Idris Elba, doing the same are zero, as he didn’t get an Oscar nomination. (You might’ve heard.)
Complete coverage of the movie awards season from our reporters, editors and critics.
Bluffer’s Guide to the Oscars: Best Supporting Actor
‘The Birth of a Nation’ Sweeps Top Awards at the Sundance Film Festival
“Ladies and gentleman,” Mr. Elba said, at one point, from the stage, standing alongside his “Beasts of No Nation” co-star Abraham Attah, “Welcome to diverse TV.”Indeed Queen Latifah, Uzo Aduba and Viola Davis all walked away with SAGs for performances on the small screen. Mr. Elba did especially, swimmingly Saturday night, taking home a second SAG for his lead performance in the BBC’s “Luther.”But as for the almighty best picture race at the Oscars, it now stands, more than ever, as exactly that: a race, because the signs are pointing all over the place.The Golden Globes split the baby between “The Revenant” for best drama and “The Martian” for best comedy. The Producers Guild anointed “The Big Short.” On Saturday, SAG-AFTRA — which has some 160,000 members — gave “Spotlight” its best ensemble prize. A day earlier, the American Cinema Editors — whose awards are closely watched, because their best dramatic film picks usually go on to win best picture — named “Mad Max: Fury Road” as the year’s best drama and “The Big Short,” for comedy.So all that can be said with certainty at this point is that the Oscar for best picture is assuredly going to a movie about a guy or a bunch of guys on a mission (perhaps with a lady thrown in, too).
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
