Strategy of Alere Board Paid Off With Buyout by Abbott - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
DealBook|Strategy of Alere Board Paid Off With Buyout by Abbott
Strategy of Alere Board Paid Off With Buyout by Abbott
Sometimes a company’s directors get it right.The diligence of the board of Alere, a diagnostic tester, brought a chunky 51 percent premium in the agreed $5.8 billion sale to Abbott, announced on Monday. Appointing a separate chairman in 2014, jettisoning Alere’s deal-hungry founder, turning down his lowball bid and focusing the business all helped.Alere found itself in a debt hangover a few years ago after it acquired rivals and loosely related firms in a series of deals under Ron Zwanziger, the company’s founder, chief executive and chairman. The industry climate did not help. Alere’s bedside tests are rapid, but they are generally more costly than standardized screens done in large volumes by big competitors. Increasing pressure on hospitals and doctors to rein in costs slowed the company’s top-line growth.
Xerox Chief Removed Ego From Decision to Split Company
With Purchase of BG Group, Shell’s Chief Bets on Oil Resurgence
The board’s decision in May 2014 to split the top roles at Alere was followed by Mr. Zwanziger’s departure a few months later. Having an independent chairman in place surely helped the board turn down a takeover offer from the former chief executive that autumn. That can’t have been an easy call, as he owned almost 5 percent of the company and the offer, at $46 a share, contained a 25 percent premium.Big investors and the board knew that several testing firms had previously expressed interest in adding Alere’s offerings to their mix. So led by a new chief executive, Namal Nawana, the company sold noncore units like its veterinary business and units that helped people quit smoking and manage high-risk pregnancies. These sales chipped away at the company’s debt. More important, they increased Alere’s allure for buyers interested in its rapid diagnostics business, like the $56 billion Abbott.The sale to Abbott at $56 a share vindicates the Alere board’s decisions over the last couple of years. Despite the recent weakness in stock markets, the deal price just tops the highest at which the company’s shares have ever traded, in August 2015. The only downside for investors is that they will now have to look for another company with similarly engaged directors.
Robert Cyran is a columnist for Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
