John Oliver Sells Out of Make Donald Drumpf Again Caps - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Media|John Oliver Sells Out of Make Donald Drumpf Again Caps
John Oliver Sells Out of Make Donald Drumpf Again Caps
Last month, John Oliver said that the latest season of his HBO show, Last Week Tonight wasnt going to cover the election the way other late night shows would. He said he wasnt that interested in providing in-depth looks at the candidates. Each week, Mr. Oliver dedicates about 20 minutes of his half-hour show to what he calls the main story, but he blanched when I asked him if he would ever spend 20 minutes on Donald J. Trump.Were definitely not doing that, he said.Well, about that. Eight days after Mr. Olivers wildly popular segment on Mr. Trump, the YouTube views keep coming. To date, the video has been viewed 19 million times on YouTube, more than any segment that Mr. Olivers show has produced. (His segment on FIFA is the next closest, with 12.4 million views, and thats been online for 14 months).
Last Week Tonight with John Oliver: Donald Trump (HBO) Video by LastWeekTonight
Donald Drumpf: A Funny Label, but Is It Fair?MARCH 2, 2016
The breakout moment of the sketch was when he referred to Mr. Trump by what he said was his familys ancestral name: Drumpf. He proposed a hashtag: #MakeDonaldDrumpfAgain. And Mr. Oliver said he was selling Make Donald Drumpf Again caps in the style of Mr. Trumps Make America Great Again caps and a Chrome extension that would switch any online reference of Trump to Drumpf.The hashtag caught fire on social media last week, and just how well are those $17.50 caps selling?
Auction of Joan Riverss Penthouse Belongings Set for Christies
Warhol and Avedon Form an Unlikely Tandem in London
Faces in the Chanel Crowd: Wendi Deng and Pharrell Williams
Void Left by Peyton Manning May Be Larger for N.F.L. Than for Broncos
Due to, um, unexpected ludicrous demand, our #MakeDonaldDrumpfAgain hats may be delayed slightly; well get them to you as soon as drumpishly possible, reads a post at the shows online store.That ludicrous demand translates to 35,000 caps sold, an HBO spokesman said. Mr. Oliver explained that the caps were being sold at cost, so neither the show nor HBO will make any profit.The Chrome extension has been downloaded more than 433,000 times, a spokeswoman for the network said.Mr. Oliver declined to comment about Mr. Trump but he suggested during the segment that the reason for his about-face was Mr. Trumps early primary victories and strong polling numbers.At this point, Mr. Trump is Americas back mole, he said. It may have seemed harmless a year ago, but now its gotten frighteningly bigger, and its no longer wise to ignore it.This last week, Mr. Oliver touched on Mr. Trump again in his opening segment before moving on to a decidedly less inviting topic: special taxing districts.
Last Week Tonight with John Oliver: Special Districts (HBO) Video by LastWeekTonight
Thats right, tonight, we are talking about special taxing districts, Mr. Oliver said on Sunday night. So, hello people watching for the first time because of our Trump piece. And also I presume, goodbye! Goodbye!
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
