NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
This month, we will consider a much-reviled grape: merlot.While some of the revulsion is merely a reflex response to powerful scenes in the 2004 movie Sideways, much of the criticism was indeed earned. Widely planted, often in the wrong places, cynically overcropped and overpriced, much merlot, particularly from California, was insipid at best.We will not drink those wines. Instead, we will focus on the most exalted region for merlot in the world: Pomerol. These wines, I believe, will reveal that merlot was never the perpetrator but simply the abused victim of inappropriate farming and winemaking.In Pomerol, where merlot is the primary grape, a very different picture will emerge. Ptrus, after all, one of the most prized, sublime and expensive wines in the world, is almost entirely merlot. Other Pomerol stalwarts, like Vieux Chteau Certan and Chteau Trotanoy, are likewise beloved if not nearly as expensive as Ptrus.While Pomerol is part of Bordeaux, it differs in climate and geology from the Mdoc, where cabernet sauvignon reigns, abetted by merlot. In Pomerol, cabernet franc plays the supporting role, with just a trickle of cabernet sauvignon. Unlike the Mdoc, a region of imposing chteaux and numerous tycoons, Pomerol is plainer, a place where magnificence is rarely visible. Though the wineries may indeed have achieved wealth, many of their owners are still farmers at heart.Most of the exorbitantly priced wines come from a plateau of gravel and clay. We wont be drinking those wines, needless to say. The wines I suggest come from beyond the plateau, where the soils may have more sand or more clay but are still hospitable to merlot.
Eric Asimov, The New York Times wine critic, is talking about merlot from Pomerol this month.If you would like to join the conversation, try one of the bottleslisted here and as you try them, ask yourself these questions.
Do these differ from merlots youve had? What about other Bordeaux?
They are expensive. Nonetheless, I urge you to try them, even if you can buy only one rather than three. You may never again drink a Pomerol, but you will better understand the potential both of the grape and of the region, and of wine in general.Here are the wines I recommend:Chteau Bourgneuf Pomerol 2012 (Maisons Marques & Domaines U.S.A., Oakland, Calif.) $45
La Gravette de Certan Pomerol 2012 (T. Elenteny Imports, New York) $45Chteau Nnin Pomerol 2012 (Fruit of the Vines, Long Island City, N.Y.) $60
Wine School: In Etna Rosso, a Delicious Tension Between Sweet and BitterMARCH 3, 2016
Wines of The Times: Taking Time to Explore Bordeauxs Other SideJAN. 19, 2010
If you cannot find any of these, I will simply say that you should buy any Pomerol that you see and can afford, regardless of vintage. Ive seen quite a few 2008s around  yes, theyre even better with a little age. I will single out two producers that I especially enjoy: Chteau Gombaude-Guillot and Clos Saint-Andr. Both show the vigneron side of Bordeaux. Their productions are small but worth seeking out.
A monthly column that invites you to drink and discuss wine with Eric Asimov.
In Etna Rosso, a Delicious Tension Between Sweet and Bitter
What does one eat with Pomerol? I think these wines are best with simpler foods: lamb chops, roasts, even roast chicken. They will not be as firm as cabernet-based wines, but food that is too complicated may muddy the clarity of their flavors.Serve cool  well short of chilled but cooler than room temperature. For these wines, I recommend generous-size glasses. But, as always, dont sweat what you dont have.
A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2016, on page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: The Best of Merlot.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
