NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
From the ancient vineyards of Burgundy, we travel to the newly emerging region of Etna in Sicily.Well, it’s not exactly new. As long as humans have lived and farmed in proximity to Mount Etna, they’ve grown grapes in the foothills and slopes of this still quite active volcano. But as a region making fine, distinctive wines coveted by the rest of the world, Etna is most definitely new.We’ll be drinking Etna Rosso, red wines made largely from the nerello mascalese grape, often abetted by a second grape, nerello cappuccio. Nerello mascalese has had its own recent emergence. In her book “Vines, Grapes & Wines,” published in 1986, Jancis Robinson referred less than reverently to one of the two grapes: “The nerello mascalese, which can add alcohol and color to overproduced table wine blends, and the distinctly superior nerello cappuccio.”
Wine School: Marsannay, Modest but Fully Realized Burgundy
By 2012, things had changed entirely. In the encyclopedic “Wine Grapes,” written with Julia Harding and José Vouillamoz, Ms. Robinson calls nerello mascalese an “important, noble Sicilian of particular significance around Etna,” while nerello cappuccio is now “the lesser, softer of Sicily’s nerellos.”
A monthly column that invites you to drink and discuss wine with Eric Asimov.
In 1986, who beyond Sicily knew? Now the world understands that Etna can produce fresh, energetic reds that are pure, elegant, subtle and vivacious. Here are the three bottles I recommend seeking out:
Tenuta Delle Terre Nere Etna Rosso 2014 (deGrazia Imports, Evanston, Ill.) $18
Benanti Etna Rosso Rossodiverzella 2013 (Tradizione Imports, New York) $20
Eric Asimov, The New York Times wine critic, is talking about Etna Rosso this month.If you would like to join the conversation, try one of the bottleslisted here and as you try them, ask yourself these questions.
These wines are naturally high in acid. How do they feel in the mouth?
Be general rather than specific. Sweet and fruited? Bitter? Savory? All of those?
Biondi Etna Rosso Outis 2013 (Selected Estates of Europe, Mamaroneck, N.Y.) $33These are the entry-level wines for each producer. If you don’t see these wines, you could also try their other cuvées, which will be more expensive, or look for these producers: Calabretta, Graci, Passopisciaro or Romeo del Castello.Etna Rossos, like pinot noirs, are versatile with food. Poultry, pork, salmon and tuna should all go well, as would a wide variety of pastas. Tomato sauces are a natural pairing, while my colleague Florence Fabricant recommends bucatini with tuna. As always, serve them cool rather than at the temperature of a heated room.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
