X Games Kick Off Without Shaun White, Their Biggest Star - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Sports|X Games Kick Off Without Shaun White, Their Biggest Star
X Games Kick Off Without Shaun White, Their Biggest Star
Shaun White competing in the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia.
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox. MondayFriday.
The Winter X Games, ESPNs extravaganza of extreme snow sports, kicked off on Thursday with its crowd-pleasing showcase of some of the worlds best aerial athletes.But a mystery has settled over the high-altitude stage in Aspen, Colo.Shaun White, whose style and dominance of snowboarding over a decade have made him the sports biggest star, is not in the lineup  and so far nobody is saying why. He was not invited, Danny Chi, an ESPN spokesman, said in an email. He declined to discuss it further.Efforts to reach White, 29, were unsuccessful.As recently as September, he appeared to want to compete. During an online chat with readers of The Seattle Times, White said, So far the plan is to compete at the next Winter X Games, but Im still waiting to lock in my season plans.His absence leaves a void in the annual competition, which White has participated in every year since 2000 with the exception of 2014, when he was preparing for the Olympics. His rsum includes two Olympic gold medals and 23 medals in the X Games, including 15 golds.In 2015, Tim Reed, vice president of the X Games, said White was ESPNs largest draw for the competition.Everyone is aware, when it comes to cultural awareness, or social awareness, he kind of transcends, Reed said at the time. Those who dont necessarily follow this stuff, theyre aware of Shaun. Theres more awareness and more desire to come watch what happens.His performance at last years competition was disappointing, as he looked rusty while finishing fourth in the superpipe. He also finished fourth in the 2014 Winter Olympics.In his most recent competition, he won the Dew Tour superpipe in December.White  who would rather not be called by his nickname, the Flying Tomato  announced on Thursday that he had bought a minority share of Mammoth Resorts, which operates the resorts in Southern California where he first learned to ride a snowboard.Its amazing that Im now an owner of the mountain where I grew up riding, White said in a news release.
A version of this article appears in print on January 30, 2016, on page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Whites 23 X Games Medals Dont Get Him Invited Back.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
