W.H.O Advises Pregnant Women to Avoid Areas Where Zika is Spreading - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Health|W.H.O Advises Pregnant Women to Avoid Areas Where Zika is Spreading
W.H.O Advises Pregnant Women to Avoid Areas Where Zika is Spreading
Dr. Margaret Chan, the director general of the W.H.O, and Dr. David L. Heymann at a news conference on Tuesday in Geneva after a meeting about the Zika virus.
Fabrice Coffrini/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images
The World Health Organization on Tuesday advised pregnant women to avoid travel to areas where the Zika virus is spreading.Experts on W.H.O.s Zika emergency committee also recommended that pregnant women and their partners who may have been infected rely on abstinence or protected sex to prevent sexual transmission of the virus.Sexual transmission is more common than previously assumed, said Dr. Margaret Chan, director general of the organization.The committee experts emphasized that they were not recommending that pregnant women avoid whole countries, but that they avoid only areas where mosquitoes are transmitting the virus.The onus is on countries to report where they are having outbreaks, said Dr. David L. Heymann, the emergency committees chairman. Then its up to the pregnant women to decide whether they want to travel there.
Two Studies Strengthen Links Between the Zika Virus and Serious Birth DefectsMARCH 4, 2016
C.D.C. Urges Pregnant Women to Avoid Travel to Olympics Over Zika FearsFEB. 27, 2016
The agency stopped short of advising women who live in those areas to delay pregnancy. The virus has been linked to tiny heads and brain damage in infants born to infected women, as well as a paralysis in some adults. W.H.O. last month declared an international public health emergency because of the suspected connection between the virus and microcephaly.But Dr. Chan said women who chose to avoid becoming pregnant for fear of having children with birth defects should be given access to voluntary contraception.
Complete coverage of the spread of Zika virus and efforts to contain it.
Two Studies Strengthen Links Between the Zika Virus and Serious Birth Defects
Officials Report 9 New Cases of Zika Virus Among Pregnant Women Tested in U.S.
C.D.C. Investigating 14 New Reports of Zika Transmission Through Sex
All of this news is alarming, Dr. Chan said.Both travel advisories and birth control advice are sensitive topics for the W.H.O. because it is a United Nations organization. Its member states often object to medical advice that country officials feel interferes with tourism, business or domestic policies.Previously, the W.H.O. had advised women only to consider delaying travel and to discuss travel plans with their doctors.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
