Daily Report: Luring Young Web Warriors Is a U.S. Priority. It's Also a Game.
Daily Report: Luring Young Web Warriors Is a U.S. Priority. Its Also a Game.
Daily Report: Luring Young Web Warriors Is a U.S. Priority. Its Also a Game.
In the eighth grade, Arlan Jaska figured out how to write a simple script that could switch his keyboards Caps Lock key on and off 6,000 times a minute. When friends werent looking, he slipped his program onto their computers. It was all fun and games until the program spread to his middle school.
They called my parents and told my dad I was hacking their computers, Mr. Jaska, now 17, recalled. He was grounded and got detention. And he is just the type the Department of Homeland Security is looking for, Nicole Perlroth writes on Monday in .
The secretary of that agency, Janet Napolitano, knows she has a problem that will only worsen. Foreign hackers have been attacking her agencys computer systems. They have also been busy trying to siphon the nations wealth and steal valuable trade secrets. And they have begun probing the nations infrastructure  the power grid and water and transportation systems.
So she needs her own hackers  600, the agency estimates. But potential recruits with the right skills have too often been heading for business, and those who do choose government work often go to the National Security Agency, where they work on offensive digital strategies. At Homeland Security, the emphasis is on keeping hackers out, or playing defense.
We have to show them how cool and exciting this is, said Ed Skoudis, one of the nations top computer security trainers. And we have to show them that applying these skills to the public sector is important.
One answer? Start young, and make it a game, even a contest.
This month, Mr. Jaska and his classmate Collin Berman took top spots at the Virginia Governors Cup Cyber Challenge, a veritable smackdown of hacking for high school students that was the brainchild of Alan Paller, a security expert, and others in the field.
With military exercises like NetWars, the competition had more the feel of a video game. Mr. Paller helped create the competition, the first in a series, to help Homeland Security, and likens the agencys need for hackers to the shortage of fighter pilots during World War II.
The job calls for a certain maverick attitude. I like to break things, Mr. Berman, 18, said. I always want to know, How can I change this so it does something else?
Disruptions: F.A.A. May Loosen Curbs on Fliers Use of Electronics
Visit the Technology section for complete coverage of the industry. 
