Its hard to talk about Yo. The app is so simple (it lets users send the word Yo to each other) that even to mock it feels like taking it too seriously  come on guys, its just Yo! Luckily, hackers have made things easier on all of us by making Yo do some new tricks.
Pre-hack, critics had to evaluate Yo on its merits, which was somewhat difficult, since it has so few of them (and so few demerits, for that matter). Nonetheless, some rose to the challenge. At Yahoo, Alyssa Bereznak said the apps one message might be succinct, but then so is throwing a brick through the window. She cast her vote for modes of communication with some non-Yo options:
There are so many other fun, inspired ways to get a persons attention via social media: @signing his username under a funny photo on Instagram, texting her with just an emoji cactus, liking a Facebook photo from three years ago. The best messaging apps are the ones that act as a platform for inventive individual expression.
Yo didnt go viral because were all idiots. Yo taps in to something that impacts us all.
He added that the apps creator, Or Arbel, called Yo an example of context-based communications, meaning it means different things depending on who its from and when.
People think its just an app that says Yo. But its really not. We like to call it context-based messaging. You understand by the context what is being said.
Others saw Yo  specifically, the fact that Mr. Arbel was able to raise $1 million worth of funding  as a sign of bigger problems with the tech industry. At ThinkProgress, Judd Legum wrote:
The larger problem is whether an economy built on seven-figure investments in apps like Yo is sustainable. If Arbel can convince sophisticated investors that Yo already merits a $1 million investment, maybe he is onto something. Or maybe the potential of Yo is not in the product itself, but on the ability in a frenzied marketplace to quickly flip Yo to another company for a profit and move onto the next app. It was too many of those kinds of transactions  divorced from revenue or value of the consumer  that caused the entire system to crash at the turn of the century.
Whether that will happen remains to be seen, but Yo is already dealing with a smaller disaster. TechCrunchs Mike Butcher reports that the site has been hacked, possibly multiple times. One rather polite hacker sent TechCrunch this description of what he and his friends had done:
We can get any Yo users phone number (I actually texted the founder, and he called me back). We can spoof Yos from any users, and we can spam any user with as many Yo. We could also send any Yo user a push notification with any text we want (though we decided not to do that).
Mr. Butcher notes that another user may have figured out how to use Yo to rickroll people.
The Yo team hopes to have the problems fixed during the day on Friday, but news of the hack has intensified anti-Yo sentiment in some quarters. It has also been a boon to headline writers  highlights include Yo app goes from dumb to dangerous with new securityhack and Yo app hacked to say things that arent Yo.
If youre a Yo early adopter and youre worried about the hack, Abby Phillip of The Washington Post has instructions for getting your contact info deleted from Yos databases:
All you have to do is emailcontact@justyo.co, ask to be removed and thats it.
Or, perhaps you could just write, Yo. If context is as important as Mr. Arbel says it is, his team should know what you mean.
Op-Talk is your guide to today's debates and the variety of voices behind them. From pizza to politics (and the politics of pizza), we offer new ways of looking at what's exciting, troubling, and inspiring.
Anna North is a staff editor for Op-Talk.@annanorthtweets
Sara Barrett is a photo editor for Opinion and Op-Talk.
Jeffrey Scales is a photo editor for Opinion and Op-Talk.@JHensonScales
