campaign: inyt2016_bar1_digi_oct_6F8YR -- 284627, creative: 1_inyt2016_bar1_digi_oct_6F8YR_launch -- 415060,
page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/business, position: Bar1
WERE watch fobs to return to vogue again, probably the one most coveted in today's office community would be the security key to I.B.M.'s new AT personal computer. The key, by whose means one can effectively shut down the system, limiting access to the machine to oneself, was in its own way a marketing coup.
In the absence of a watch fob, twirling this key about, or fingering it as if it were a worry stone, has become the latest Yuppie status symbol.
Although purchasing a computer simply to flaunt one's success would obviously be wanton excess, the concept behind the very existence of such a key points up an aspect of personal computing all too often given short shrift in the pell-mell rush to equip the office with the fastest machine and the most feature-filled softwareavailable - namely, the question of security. The concern of security is not only with the physical safety of equipment from theft, but also the safeguarding of information utilized by the machine.
The most basic of data security precautions for any individual or company employing microcomputers is the making of backups, duplicate copies of the diskettes that hold valuable programs and data. Can there be anyone who has not heard, upon first purchasing a personal computer, of the absolute necessity of backups? Yet not a week goes by without my hearing yet another tale of woe about some company whose entire accounts receivable, year-end inventory or some other records much labored over have been devoured by the computer and, that's right, there was no backup. Why?
Perhaps it's because, to the first-timer, at least, backing up one's data does sound like a bit of a sales push. After all, making duplicate copies of everything means using twice as many floppies or maybe even, if one's machine has a hard disk, adding a tape backup system. Neither alternative is exactly an inexpensive proposition.
Maybe it's an oversight carried over from a more mechanical age. In pre-electronic days, valuable records needed to be protected primarily from fire and theft, and so they were locked away by the careful in fireproof safes or cabinets at the close of each business day. Particularly vital records not in active use were carted off to some distant depository for long-term storage. Rarely were duplicate records kept, the safekeeping of the originals being deemed a sufficient precaution.
Whatever the case, the need for backups of computerized data does not usually come to the fore until the screen announces a read/ write error on a disk or someone accidentally erases a crucial file. At that point it's often too late to remedy the situation.
Electrical malfunctions, operator errors, even dust can destroy data. Yet another potential problem lurks in the very nature of magnetic media.How long will they last?
Everyone knows that paper crumbles with age. Modern paper in particular has lost the enduring quality of the acid-free sheets once produced. Even so, one can assume that it will usually retain information for 50 years or so. Magnetic media haven't even been around that long. There is in fact some doubt as to their dependability with regard to long- term storage, particularly in the case of the newer double-density and quad-density formats, where data are crammed in like so many riders in a subway car during rush hour and may be subject to unexpected internal shifts.
ALTHOUGH it is an expedient not much discussed in the personal computer world, many companies using mainframe computers have long had a policy of not storing data on any magnetic medium for an extended period, say more than six months. If during that period the data have not been used or transferred onto other disks or tapes, new copies are made automatically, and the original medium is then recycled.
This procedure may be overly cautious. Then again, it may not be. If a business is going to depend solely on magnetic media for record storage, can it afford to discover at some crucial juncture in the future that all those electronic files invisibly housed on disks were even more ethereal than had been thought and have vanished into some unknown nether world where the magnetic forces flow free?
Data disks are not the only ones in need of a little prudent forethought. The thousands of dollars invested in a library of programs should also be safeguarded. First there is the matter of making a backup of every program disk acquired. Far too often, one is so eager to tackle a new program that one doesn't get around to making the backup copy recommended by the publisher right away. Soon it is forgotten altogether - until someone accidentally puts a cup of coffee on the master disk.
Anyone who uses a personal computer should adopt the steadfast habit of making not one, but two backup copies of any new program as soon as it is unpacked. In the case of programs that cannot be copied, the publisher usually sells backups for a small fee, and two should be purchased.
Once copies of all programs and data disks have been made, where should they be stored? One set obviously belongs by the side of the computer, preferably lodged in a dustproof case. A second complete set should be placed in a secure, and ideally fireproof, depository in some easily accessible location but not in the same room with the computer. The third set, including the original program disks, should be kept off site, either in a different building or at home.
If all this sounds like high-tech paranoia, consider for a moment what it would mean to your business to have all the floppies accumulated over, say, the past year suddenly vanish. What would it cost you in time and money, not to mention lost customers, to reconstruct the records on those disks? Backing up everything you have on disk may well be insurance on which you never need to collect. But in today's fast-paced environment, being able to collect could make all the difference to your company's survival.
The flip side of guaranteeing that one has access to all accumulated data is the matter of making sure that others don't. There will be more on this important aspect of data protection in next week's column.
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
