Morning Agenda: Making a Blind Bet on Uber - 
Wealthy clients of Morgan Stanley are piling into a special fund that gives them a chance to bet on Uber,
Leslie Picker and Peter Eavis report in DealBook. The fund, New Riders L.P., shows just how much some investors are willing to give up to gain a piece of the hottest start-up.
Investors are effectively handing over their money with their eyes closed. A person briefed on the terms said that institutional investors were getting financial disclosures on revenue and expense metrics and projects, but the offering document for the New Riders fund that The Times reviewed provides no financial details about Uber.
The investors do not get direct equity in Uber either, only indirectly through the fund. This means the fund offers few protections for investors.
But this has not prevented wealthy investors from committing about $500 million to Ubers latest round, which values the company at $62.5 billion, according to people briefed on the transaction.
Morgan Stanley is not the only one offering such funds. Bank of America Merrill Lynch is pitching a similar fund that requires an investment of at least $1 million and a net worth of $100 million, according to people briefed on the terms.
It seems that even as valuations decline and the public stock market stumbles, a sense of euphoria still surrounds this particular unicorn, that is, a private company with a valuation of more than $1 billion.
Martin Shkrelis grilling by Congress was just the spectacle that many were anticipating. Lawyers excoriated him, he smirked and smiled, but refused to answer questions.
Mr. Shkreli repeatedly exercised his Fifth Amendment right to avoid self-incrimination, Andrew Pollack and Emmarie Huetteman report in . He is facing federal securities fraud charges.
Members of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform were infuriated. I dont think Ive ever seen the committee treated with such contempt, Representative John L. Mica, a Florida Republican, said after Mr. Shkreli left the hearing.
After leaving the room, Mr. Shkreli promptly called the lawmakers imbeciles on Twitter.
There was little substantive discussion about drug price increases. Lawmakers from both parties took turns berating Mr. Shkreli, Turing and Valeant.
Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, complained that Mr. Shkreli didnt have to be prodded to talk when granting television interviews, tweeting or live-streaming his life.
Mr. Shkreli said, I intend to follow the advice of my counsel, not yours.
Two of the worlds biggest toy companies are considering a merger that would bring Hot Wheels and My Little Pony under the same roof,
Bloomberg News reports, citing people familiar with the matter.
Hasbro approached Mattel about a potential transaction late last year, but the details of a potential deal have not been revealed and they have not yet agreed on the merger.
The discussions come as Mattel tries to revive the Barbie brand after losing market share to Lego and My Little Pony in recent years. Mattels revenue is also likely to be hit this year as the licensing rights to Disneys Frozen and Princess brands shift to Hasbro. News of the talks bolstered shares in both companies.
This is not the first time the companies have considered merging. Mattel withdrew a $5.2 billion offer for Hasbro 20 years ago after its competitor used the media and politicians to fight the takeover.
The Labor Department will publish figures on hiring and unemployment in January at 8:30 a.m.
Chinas push to make its own microchips, a move that could bolster its military capabilities and its homegrown technology industry, is attracting attention and suspicion in Washington,
Paul Mozur and Jane Perlez report in .
United States officials blocked the proposed purchase of a controlling stake in a unit of the Dutch electronics company Philips by Chinese investors mainly because of worries over Chinas ambitions, according to an expert and a person involved in the deal discussions.
Philips cited concerns raised by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or Cfius, which reviews whether foreign investments in the country present a national security risk.
The blocking of the deal, worth as much as $2.9 billion, illustrates the
concern in Washington about Chinese efforts to acquire the know-how to make the semiconductors that work as the brains of sophisticated electronics, including military applications like missile systems.
Advancing its chip industry has been a major political initiative for Beijing. Analysts said that in recent years, Chinese corporate espionage and hacking efforts have been aimed at stealing chip technology, while Chinese firms have used government funds to buy foreign companies and technology as well as attract engineers.
Cfius reviews have been a growing problem for outbound Chinese deals. The most recent data available show that in 2012 and 2013, Chinese investment accounted for more committee reviews than money coming from any other country.
Last year, subsidiaries of the state-controlled Tsinghua Holdings made a number of bids for American companies. The flurry of deal activity and a lack of American regulatory response spurred a Sanford C. Bernstein analyst, Mark Newman, to say that the United States runs the risk of being asleep at the wheel.
In Industry Shift, Sharp Looks Outside Japan for a Buyer
The company plans to decide in the next month between competing offers from Foxconn of Taiwan and an investment fund financed by the Japanese government.NYT 
State Street Is Said to Near Deal for G.E.s Asset Management Unit
State Street is close to a deal to acquire General Electrics
$115 billion asset management business, Reuters reports, citing people familiar with the matter. reuters
EQT Sells Waste-to-Energy Company to Beijing Enterprises for $1.59 Billion
The Swedish private equity fund EQT said that it would sell its German holding EEW Energy from Waste to Beijing Enterprises Holdings for an equity price of 1.44 billion euros, or about $1.59 billion. THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Chinese Firm Is Said to Close In on Australian Cattle Empire
The treasurer of Australia, Scott Morrison, is poised to sign off on a $216 million deal giving control of Australias largest Outback cattle empire to Shanghai Pengxin Group, after blocking an earlier bid last year on national security grounds, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing people familiar with the matter. THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Credit Suisses Painful Turnaround Is Falling Short
The Swiss banks fourth-quarter results were riddled with exceptional items, but even after stripping these out, the bank would have failed to turn a profit, Dominic Elliott writes in Breakingviews.Breakingviews |Credit Suisse Takes Big Loss on Write-Down in 4th Quarter 7:14 AM
Swiss Lender to Pay $547 Million for Helping U.S. Tax Evaders
Julius Baer, Switzerlands third-largest lender, agreed to pay $547 million to avoid U.S. prosecution and acknowledged it helped American clients hide billions of dollars in assets from tax authorities while coaching its bankers on how to avoid detection. bloomberg news
The crisis is plodding along, simply because even panic requires open lines of communication.Op-Ed | Masha Gessen 
Questions on Speeches to Goldman Sachs Vex Hillary Clinton
With rivals pouncing on her ties to corporate America, experts say Mrs. Clinton needs to justify accepting speaking fees as high as $225,000. And quickly.NYT 
The French bank BNP Paribas reported sharply lower fourth-quarter net profit on Friday, hit by a hefty write-down on its Italian bank, and said it planned to trim its corporate and investment bank to meet stricter financial regulation in Europe. THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Symantec Takes Investment and Will Return Cash to Investors
Symantec, a digital security company, has accepted $500 million from Silver Lake Partners, and plans share buybacks and a special dividend.NYT 
BlueCrest Capital Management is being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission over possible conflicts posed by an internal fund that manages money for the firms partners, Bloomberg reports, citing people with knowledge of the matter. bloomberg news
Bill Seeks to Limit Use of Arbitration to Avoid Courts
A Senate bill would prevent civil rights cases, employment disputes and other critical lawsuits from being forced into arbitration, a process often stacked against consumers.NYT 
High-Speed Traders in Britain Subject to New Accountability Rules
The Financial Conduct Authority, a British regulator, said certification rules would apply to wholesale banking activities, including high-frequency and algorithmic traders.NYT 
High Rate of Problem Drinking Reported Among Lawyers
One in three practicing lawyers are problem drinkers, and 28 percent have depression, according to a study of nearly 13,000 licensed lawyers in the United States.NYT 
Rajat Gupta Gets New Chance to Void Insider Trading Conviction
In an order on Thursday, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in New York said it would review Mr. Guptas conviction for having passed tips to a hedge fund manager about Goldman Sachs financial results and a crucial $5 billion investment from Berkshire Hathaway.reuters
Citic Securities Says Seven Executives Involved in Inquiries Have Returned
The Chinese brokerage firm Citic Securities said that it had re-established contact with seven senior executives who had been accused of insider trading and other offenses after the stock market meltdown in China last year, though the group did not include the firms former president. THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Federal Agents Raid Offices of Former Insurance Magnate
Federal investigators recently searched the Manhattan offices of an investment firm once overseen by a young insurance magnate, Alexander Chatfield Burns, whose empire collapsed in 2014 in the face of accusations that millions of dollars had been siphoned off into unusual or nonexistent investments. the wall street journal
If There Is a Recession in 2016, This Is How It Will Happen
Tumult in emerging markets and the commodities sectors could create both real and psychological hits to an economy that is already growing sluggishly.The Upshot 
I.M.F. Chief Urges Bigger Global Financial Safety Net
The chief, Christine Lagarde, said global powers needed to establish new short-term emergency credit lines to help protect emerging market economies buffeted by dangerous economic headwinds, an effort that could face opposition from the International Monetary Funds most powerful member, the United States.the wall street journal
The announcement by the senator, Rob Portman of Ohio, a former trade ambassador to President George W. Bush, illustrates the congressional headwinds facing the 12-nation trade accord.NYT 
Philippe Dauman Succeeds Sumner Redstone as Viacom Chairman
The development comes one day after it was announced that the ailing 92-year-old Mr. Redstone had resigned from his role as executive chairman of CBS.NYT |Sumner Redstone Steps Down as CBS Chairman
Legal Marijuana Sales Hit $5.4 Billion in 2015, Report Says
Marijuana is gaining more respect as legal sales rose from $4.6 billion in 2014, according to a report by two analysis and investment firms.NYT 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Alcohol Abuse, Arbitration, Conciliation and Mediation, Australia, Bank of America Corporation, BlueCrest Capital Management LP, BNP Paribas SA, Cattle, China, Clinton, Hillary Rodham, Computer Chips, Credit Suisse Group AG, Foxconn Technology, General Electric Company, Goldman Sachs Group Inc, Gupta, Rajat K, Hasbro Inc, High-Frequency and Flash Trading, International Monetary Fund, Japan, Lagarde, Christine, Legal Profession, Marijuana, Mattel Inc, Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures, Morgan Stanley, Recession and Depression, Russia, Securities and Exchange Commission, Sharp Corporation, Shkreli, Martin (1983- ), State Street Corporation, Symantec Corporation, Tax Evasion, Toys, Trans-Pacific Partnership, Uber Technologies Inc, Viacom Inc, Walt Disney Company
