Richer Retirement Accounts Aid Small Employers - 

Small Business|Richer Retirement Accounts Aid Small Employers
COMBING through this years tax and pension laws, leading tax professionals have identified provisions and strategies that small businesses can use to their advantage.The Pension Protection Act of 2006 made permanent a number of enhancements to individual retirement accounts and defined-contribution retirement plans, including 401(k) and Simple plans, which are popular with small businesses. The enhancements, enacted in 2001, are scheduled to expire after 2010, leaving businesses reluctant to make changes that might be temporary.
Since 2001, planning has been precarious at best, said Paul N. Gada, a lawyer and senior tax analyst at CCH, a publisher of books and software for tax professionals. Now that uncertainty has been removed, it should have a positive impact, encouraging businesses to set up and improve plans.Among the permanent enhancements cited by CCH are: Higher dollar limits for contributions. For I.R.A.s they will be $4,000 this year, $5,000 in 2008 and inflation-adjusted in future years. For 401(k)s they will be $15,000 this year,
and for Simple plans, $10,000, with both adjusted for inflation thereafter. Additional contributions, known as catch-up contributions, for workers age 50 and older. They are $1,000 for I.R.A.s with no future inflation adjustment; $2,500 for Simple plans; and $5,000 for 401(k)s in 2006, with both inflation-adjusted in future years. Besides regular 401(k) plans, employers may sponsor Roth 401(k) plans, under which after-tax money goes into the plans and retirement distributions are tax free.
 Employers with no more than 100 employees that offer new plans can take a tax credit up to $500 a year for each of the first three years for pension plan start-up costs.
Mark Luscombe, a lawyer and accountant who is the principal tax analyst at CCH, said the new pension law also made important changes in the rules governing 401(k) plans.A new opt out rule is the reverse of present practice. Employees participating in employer-sponsored 401(k) plans have always had to sign up and tell their employers what percentage of their salaries to withhold. Now employers sponsoring 401(k) plans are to sign up employees automatically. Employees who do not wish to participate must then opt out.Another change allows providers of retirement plans to offer personalized investment advice to account holders. The Bush administration contended that workers needed help in choosing investments.A third change, for small employers, would simplify reporting requirements by allowing them to combine reports of defined benefit and 401(k)s in one document.
The changes, Mr. Luscombe said, are intended to encourage more employers to offer plans and more employees to join them.Going beyond its name, the pension law also extended the rules that authorize popular
Section 529 college savings programs sponsored by states. Many states allow tax breaks for money that residents put into such plans, and distributions, when used for qualified college expenses, are tax free.Bill Fleming, a managing director of PricewaterhouseCoopers in Hartford, said the plans are not just for children. Many businesspeople want to take business-related courses, and most 529 plans allow adults to name themselves as beneficiary when setting up the plan. A few state plans, however, have age-related requirements, he said, so check the plan before investing.The money may be used to pay for part-time or full-time course work, and even
for learning by Internet at the college or graduate level, if the courses are offered by institutions that qualify for federal financial aid.
The Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act, which President Bush signed on May 17, could give an indirect impetus to a favorite income-shifting strategy of business owners, namely employing their children, said Sidney Kess, a New York tax lawyer and accountant.The reason is that the law raised the age limit on what is known as the kiddie tax to 18 from 14. Under the kiddie tax any unearned income, like dividends and interest of more than $1,700 in a dependent childs name, is taxed at the parents tax rate. But any income a child earns is taxed at the childs rate. A self-employed person can hire her child and the child can invest her earnings for college.The work must be real work for a realistic wage, Mr. Kess said. Most high school students are computer literate and can do
office work, he said, and most businesspeople want their children to learn their business, so the advantages go
beyond taxes.Mr. Kess gave this example: Lets say youre in the 28 percent bracket. You hire your child and pay $9,150. You deduct the wages on Schedule C, saving $2,562 in income tax and $1,400 in self-employment tax, for a total tax savings of $3,962. The child takes the standard deduction of $5,150, so taxable income is $4,000, and the tax on that is $403, meaning the family tax savings is $3,559. Or the child can contribute $4,000 to a deductible I.R.A. and pay no tax.Unlike incorporated businesses, people with unincorporated businesses do not have to withhold Social Security and Medicare taxes when they hire their minor children.Despite all the changes, one important issue for small business remains uncertain  estate taxes. Something will be done before 2010, Mr. Gada said, but right now business owners do not know what it will be, and that makes planning
A version of this article appears in print on , on page SPG4 of the New York edition with the headline: Richer Retirement Accounts Aid Small Employers.


