Former Pentagon official says whistleblowing system is a 'trap'
https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2016/may/23/pentagon-whistleblowing-system-snowden-briefing
Snowden calls for new whistleblower protections NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden says new protections are necessary after the Guardian spoke to a former Pentagon official who claims the system for reporting wrongdoing is a “trap”. John Crane, a longtime assistant inspector general at the Department of Defense, accuses his former employer of deliberately leaking the name of another whistleblower, Thomas Drake, to criminal investigators. Snowden, responding to Crane’s revelations, told the Guardian he tried to alert colleagues to his concerns. He was told: “You’re playing with fire.” Snowden calls for whistleblower shield after claims by new Pentagon source Primary fight will not go quietly The three-way fight that has defined the final stages of the presidential primaries shows no sign of easing. Bernie Sanders called his party’s rules “undemocratic” and vowed opposition to Democratic National Committee chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz, as his struggle with Hillary Clinton grows more severe. Clinton, reacting to polls that reveal an unexpectedly close “battle of negatives” between herself and Donald Trump, said a Trump presidency would put “kids at risk”.  Here, Dan Roberts considers Bill Clinton’s economic advisory role in light of his presidential legacy. Elsewhere, though the NRA says “Bernie’s right” about gunmaker liability, the former Texas governor Rick Perry said that with Clinton close to the Democratic nomination, the future of gun rights “hangs in the balance”. Sanders condemns ‘anointment’ of Clinton as feud with party intensifies Obama lifts Vietnam arms embargo Barack Obama has lifted the 50-year embargo on arms sales to Vietnam, saying he wants to normalize relations with a former enemy. The US president’s visit to Hanoi has a clear subtext: Vietnam is a key partner for the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP), a trade deal, divisive at home, that is designed to counter China’s growing regional influence. The Chinese state-run newspaper Global Times predicted failure, running an editorial titled: “Obama unable to turn Hanoi into an ally.” US lifts decades-long embargo on arms sales to Vietnam Taliban in disarray after strike The Taliban’s search for a leader to replace Mullah Akhtar Mansoor, who was killed by a US drone strike in Pakistan on Saturday, is unlikely to be swift or smooth, Jon Boone writes from Islamabad. As Mansoor’s charred, decapitated remains lay unclaimed in a military hospital in the city of Quetta on Monday, discussions over his replacement had likely already begun. Taliban in disarray as the search for a new leader gets under way Suicide bombers strike Syrian coastal towns Islamic State has claimed responsibility for five blasts that killed more than 100 people in the Syrian coastal cities of Jableh and Tartous – the first of their kind in the coastal region, near where Russia maintains a naval facility. Middle East editor Ian Black reports on a rare poll that finds 60% of Syrians believe the influence of the jihadis of Isis has decreased in the last six months, and three out of four Syrians believe a political solution can end the war. In an exclusive article for the Guardian, meanwhile, Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan has criticized Europe not doing enough to redistribute the three million Syrians now living in Turkey. Explosions kill scores of people in Syrian coastal cities Austria tilts toward far-right candidate Europe could be about to elect its first overtly far-right leader in modern times – the Freedom party candidate Norbert Hofer holds a thin lead over a former Green party rival. But with postal ballots still to be tallied, the outcome remains unclear. The Guardian’s Kate Connolly writes that while the Austrian presidency is a mainly ceremonial role, the success of a far-right politician already represents a political earthquake and will be celebrated as a triumph by xenophobic parties across the continent. Simon Tisdall considers the far-right surge. Austria election: far-right candidate and rival tied at 50% in exit poll Trump’s brand to deflate? Suzanne McGee asks if we are about to elect a one-man financial bubble. Donald Trump may still be stalling on releasing his tax records but even his personal financial disclosure statement released last week reveals clues to state of his pocketbook. Trump called it “tremendous”, but could it be more like Groupon, the famously overly valued daily deal website, dressed up to “maximize our perception of how much money he has”. Donald Trump’s brand appears to be thriving – but could his bubble burst? Manchester United seek Special One Two days after winning the FA Cup, Louis van Gaal is expected to hand over management to José Mourinho. The Dutchman’s two-year term at Old Trafford is widely considered a disappointment. There is also speculation that Ryan Giggs, United’s most decorated player and an assistant to Van Gaal, could also leave. Barney Ronay says the new manager, once of arch-rivals Chelsea, may not be ideal, but at least he won’t be boring. Louis van Gaal arrives at Manchester United training ground as end looms Adele set to sign $130m deal The pop phenom Adele is reportedly negotiating a deal with Sony Music that could double her fortunes in one stroke. The $130m deal would be the biggest for a female artist in history, handily beating Whitney Houston’s $100m in 2001. “We’ve secured Adele, who’s without doubt the biggest music star in a generation,” a Sony source told the Sun, adding, in classic record company speak: “This is massive.” Adele set to sign £90m Sony deal UK director Ken Loach pulls off a Palme d’Or double The 79-year-old Briton has triumphed at the Cannes film festival for the second time, with I, Daniel Blake, a drama about the UK’s bureaucratic welfare state. Loach, who left retirement to make the film, remarked that it was “very strange” to receive the award in such glamorous surroundings, considering the circumstances of the people who inspired his work. The Guardian’s Peter Bradshaw noted “shades of Dickens and Orwell in this emphatic drama about a disabled man strangled by the red tape of the benefits system”. Ken Loach stuns at Cannes 2016 with Palme d’Or win for I, Daniel Blake The ‘condom Nazi’ Michael Weinstein, head of the billion-dollar Aids Healthcare Foundation, is behind a ballot that Californians will vote on in November, asking if actors in porn films should be required to wear condoms. The industry is unimpressed. He is unfazed. ‘Demon’ or ‘savior’? Aids activist at war to make condoms in porn the law And in case you missed it… Columnist John Paul Brammer wonders if, like him, you are a liberal who loves Uber and Airbnb. Given the well-publicized moral and ethical dilemmas that using these services entails, Brammer says they may be exactly what we need but they also undermine positions on basic social values on minimum wage, guaranteed medical leave and paid overtime and other job protections. Still, he says, trading ethics for comfort is par for the course in America Has convenience turned you into a monster?
