Mother of Hugh Grant's daughter sues Daily Mail publisher
https://www.theguardian.com/media/2012/dec/21/mother-hugh-grant-daughter-sues-daily-mail
Tinglan Hong, the mother of Hugh Grants daughter, is suing the publisher of the Daily Mail for aggravated damages over a series of articles she claims invaded her privacy. Tinglan was the subject of intense media interest in late 2011 when it emerged she was the mother of Grants child. She has described how her life was made unbearable by photographers and journalists camped outside her home in pursuit of a picture of her and her weeks-old daughter. Now she is taking legal action against Associated Newspapers, the Daily Mail publisher, for alleged misuse of private information, breach of confidence and copyright infringement. Tinglan is suing over four articles and eight photographs published by either the Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday or Mail Online in early November 2011, at the height of the media frenzy around her pregnancy. In a claim form filed at the high court, Tinglan said she suffered substantial distress and damage as a result of the articles and is seeking legal compensation. Two of the eight photographs Tinglan is suing over were taken as a result of surveillance and pursuit by paparazzi in the street when she was pregnant, the claim form says. Three of the pictures used on Mail Online were taken in October 2008 during a private photographic session in China. Another was taken at a private party and the eighth was from a holiday abroad. The claim form states: The publication of the photographs and the highlighted parts of the articles constitutes a misuse of the claimants private information and/or an unnecessary and unwarranted invasion of her right to respect for her private and family life. The publication was not justified by any countervailing public interest. Associated Newspapers hired a Mandarin speaker to leave a message on China-born Tinglans mobile phone in November 2011 after she failed to respond to messages from other Daily Mail journalists, according to the claim form. One of the Daily Mail articles Tinglan is suing over was headed A fleeting affair with girl 19 years his junior, now Hughs the daddy and published on 2 November 2011. Tinglan is claiming more than £15,000 in damages from the publisher over the four articles published last year. She also wants the high court to ban Associated Newspapers from republishing any of the private material. She has instructed Mark Thomson, the media lawyer who has represented several phone-hacking victims, and Heather Rogers QC in the legal action. The high court granted an anti-harassment injunction against the paparazzi in relation to Hong on 11 November last year, after she complained about several incidents involving photographers outside her London home. Associated Newspapers had not filed a defence at the high court at the time of publication. The company had also not responded to a request for comment. • To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly for publication. • To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook
