The privacy of our medical records is being sold off
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2012/aug/28/code-practice-medical-data-vulnerable
In December last year, David Cameron announced that it was simply a waste to have a health service like the NHS and not use the data it generated. Let me be clear, this does not threaten privacy, he reassured us. It doesnt mean anyone can look at your health records, but it does mean using anonymous data to make new medical breakthroughs. As with climate change, an inconvenient truth has been ignored for a generation by the policy elite. Computer scientists realised about thirty 30 years ago that protecting privacy using anonymity is a lot harder than it looks. An answer to Cameron came from the Royal Society in June, in its report on science as an open enterprise. It had been assumed in the past that the privacy of data subjects could be protected by processes of anonymisation such as the removal of names and precise addresses of data subjects, noted a distinguished committee, including such luminaries as the philosopher Baroness ONeill and the director of the Wellcome Trust, Sir Mark Walport. Their warning was brutal: However, a substantial body of work in computer science has now demonstrated that the security of personal records in databases cannot be guaranteed through anonymisation procedures where identities are actively sought. Medical records are difficult, because they often contain publicly known information mixed in with private stuff: think of Gordon Browns eye operations. In a famous case, Harvard professor Latanya Sweeney managed to identify the medical record of the governor of Massachusetts from anonymous records released by the Veterans Administration. For years, officials did not want to know. The idea that you could stop worrying about privacy if you just delete peoples names is altogether too seductive. John Majors government built a database of hospital records with names removed, postcode and date of birth still there – so most patients are easy to identify. After the BMA objected, the Caldicott committee was set up to look into the problem and pointed out that more than 60 information flows in the NHS were illegal. The following Labour government at least did not deny the science, but went for legal fixes. The Data Protection Act 1998 was given a huge loophole: database operators can pretend data are anonymous if they cant re-identify the records – even if others can. Camerons anonymous record-sharing goes live from next month, when our GP and hospital records will be made available to drug company and other researchers through the Clinical Practice Research Database. The governments privacy tsar, Tim Kelsey, promised last year that its anonymity mechanisms would be public. But a freedom of information request asking how records will be anonymised was declined – with the system operators claiming that its security could be at risk if people learned how they manipulate data. Yet medical researchers will have to set out how the data were manipulated if their papers are to be of any value. So what about the regulator? The information commissioner has the power under section 52 of the Data Protection Act to issue codes of practice which can shield firms from liability. He has duly produced a draft anonymisation code of practice, claiming: The code is intended to demonstrate that the effective anonymisation of personal data is possible, desirable and can help society to ensure the availability of rich data resources while protecting individuals privacy. He suggests that GP surgeries and supermarkets could use a shared encryption key to create a common pseudonym from peoples names and addresses so that patients diabetic status could be correlated with supermarket purchases. Really? GPs are to make sensitive information available without consent to local supermarkets who can re-identify diabetic patients who are their employees, or who have handed over their names and addresses to get a loyalty card? This is the sort of scheme wed expect the commissioner to forbid, not promote. It may not surprise us that government rolls over for Big Pharma, but from an independent regulator we might have expected better. The one last hope is that the code must be approved by the secretary of state under the Data Protection Act, and he must withhold approval if that would place the UK in breach of its community and other international human rights obligations – which this code most certainly will. Perhaps we should pray that Ken Clarke is still justice secretary when it is sent for approval in November.
