How Tor helped catch the Harvard bomb threat suspect | The Daily Dot
How Tor helped catch the Harvard bomb threat suspect
'Class' is a disappointing addition to the 'Doctor Who' universe
Set in an English sixth-form college, the new teen-friendly 'Doctor Who' spinoff doesn't live up to the hype.
Tiny robots could become the ultimate wearable of the future
How Tor helped catch the Harvard bomb threat suspect
A student has been accused of emailing bomb threats at Harvard to delay final exams, but what's more interesting is how he was caught.
A student named Eldo Kim has been accused of emailing bomb threats to Harvard University buildings to delay final exams. For anonymity and privacy advocates as well as practitioners of OPSEC (operational security), what's more interesting is the way he was caught.
According to thecriminal complaintby the U.S. attorney's office in Massachusetts, the messages were allegedly sent around 8:30am on a Monday morning to offices including the Harvard University Police Department and Harvard Crimson. They originated from a service called GuerillaMail, which advertises disposable, temporary email addresses. According to theaffidavit of FBI agent Thomas M. Dalton, investigation yielded information that the person who sent the e-mail messages accessed Guerrilla Mail by using ... Tor and that Harvard University was able to determine  Eldo Kim accessed Tor using Harvards wireless network.
Toris the premier online anonymity software browser, which routes a user's connection through several nodes and, if used correctly, is able to conceal their true location and identity. So does this mean that Tor is broken? Not at all.
The affidavit is lacking in crucial detail about how Eldo Kim was identified, but here's how it could have happened.
A Tor circuit is defined by the nodes that a message traverses and where it enters and exits, employing a concept calledonion routing. While thelist of Tor exit nodesis publicly available, relays where connections enter are known as well. The IP address of the exit node used by the suspect was included in a header labeled X-Originating-IP, which is tacked onto emails sent from GuerillaMail by default, and that IP also would have appeared in their access logs. On the other hand the address of the entry node, and the suspect's connection to it, could be observed by Harvard viametadataanalysis of a traffic flow log on their network during the time in question. Its trivial to correlate an IP address with Tor at either end of the equation.
Harvard University is presumed to retain logs of recent network activity, and furthermore, users of their Wi-Fi network arerequired to authenticatewith their registered campus ID. It sounds like network administrators merely looked to see who was using the Tor protocol or connecting to a known Tor relay's IP address at the time the emails were sent. They would have settled upon Kim because his identification and computers MAC address was attached to the activity, and the list of people accessing Tor on campus during that time-frame, and thus the number of suspects to be questioned, was probably very small.
Indeed, by looking at potential motive, the targeted buildings, and the time the emails were sent, authorities were likely able to drastically narrow their list of potential suspects, assecurity researcher@thegrugqnoted.
The text of the actual bomb threat would have been indecipherable and unable to be captured as it traveled between Kims computer and the servers ofGuerillaMail, since layers of encryption are applied to data in transit via Tor and they employ SSL/HTTPS on its website. GuerillaMail had little to offer the FBI other than the fact the message originated from Tor and when. Yet, after receipt of the email and determining it was from a Tor user, authorities were able to go back in time and correlate it with Tor activity on their network, without being certain about its content.
This raises important questions about the extent of logging and monitoring which is done by Harvard, and whether their practices are conducive to students' privacy.
Now I'm curious about tye kind of network logs Harvard is keeping that let them retrospectively ID Tor users.
After last year's email search scandal, I'd think Harvard would have thought very carefully about keeping logs of net activity.
Catching idiots who email bomb threats is all well and good, but wonder what the access policy for these logs is.
The policy, titled Computer Rules and Responsibilities, from Harvards IT department reads: HUIT reserves the right to scan the Harvard network and systems connected to it to assist in identifying and protecting against exploitable security vulnerabilities (e.g., viruses) and to preserve network integrity and availability of resources (e.g., sufficient bandwidth).
Upon being questioned by the FBI, Kim allegedly confessed. Thats crucial. Without an admission of guilt, his actions would have been difficult to prove definitively, since he could have been accessing the Tor network for some other purpose. It seems as though the guy panicked about the exam, sent the emails at the last minute, but didnt think it through.
Tor has seenefforts by the NSAto break it, whichhave not succeeded. Only in select cases using vulnerabilities that target Web browsers and servers, such as ahigh-profile Firefox JavaScript exploitused to shut downFreedom Hostingthis past fall, have authorities been able to unmask Tor users.
Ultimately Kim may have been caught because he used Tor, rather than in spite of the fact he did.
A version of the articleoriginally appearedon Wireless Fantasy.
Photo by cthulhuwho1/Flickr (remix by Fernando Alfonso III)
An in-depth guide to Freedom Hosting, the engine of the Dark Net
Eric Eoin Marques, 28the largest facilitator of child porn on the planet, according to the FBIwas recently arrested and is currently in an Irish jail awaiting the conclusion of his extradition trial. The FBI aims to bring Marques to trial in the United States. If convicted, Marques faces up to 30 years in prison.
