Germany Asks Apple About iPhones Data-Gathering - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Technology|Germany Asks Apple About iPhones Data-Gathering
BERLIN  The justice minister of Germany expressed concern on Monday over Apples practice of compiling data on users of its new iPhone, making the company the latest
technology giant to fall afoul of the countrys strict privacy laws.The latest version of the companys smartphone, the iPhone 4, went on sale in Germany on Thursday. Under German law, the mere act of collecting personal data without an individuals permission, whether it be geographic location or Web traffic, is illegal.The justice minister, Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger, asked Apple to tell state data protection officials about the kind of data the company was gathering on individual iPhone users in Germany. The company is also being asked to outline
how long the data is being stored and for what purpose.Apple has the obligation to properly implement the transparency so often promised by Steve Jobs, Ms. Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger said in an interview with the magazine Der Spiegel.Apple, in a statement, said that iPhone 4 gives its users in Germany the option of denying the transfer of any personal information, including geographic location, to third parties. Referring to the phones operating system, it said, With iOS4, Apple has gone further to protect users privacy, particularly with respect to location, than anyone else has to date.
In the user manual for the new phone circulated in Germany, Apple says it reserves the right to forward data like the geographic location of individuals to other companies.German privacy laws are among the strictest in Europe, giving individuals, including convicted felons, virtually total control over the use of their personal information.Several Internet companies, like Google, Facebook and now Apple, have become ensnared in German regulations as they try to carry out business models that rely in part on the use of private information. On June 6, the German consumer protection minister, Ilse Aigner, threatened Facebook with fines if it did not improve the protection of information provided by German users of the social networking site. Ms. Aigner also said she planned to delete her own Facebook entry.At the request of a data protection supervisor in Hamburg, Google disclosed in May that it had improperly collected 600 gigabytes of personal data, including fragments of e-mail messages and unencrypted passwords, on individuals around the world as it scanned home Wi-Fi networks while it gathered information for its Street View map archive.The disclosure set off investigations in 12 countries and territories, including Germany, the United States, France and Spain. European regulators are pressing the company to hand over the data it improperly collected on their citizens.Ulrich Staudigl, a spokesman for the German justice minister, said Ms. Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger had not threatened to fine Apple but had merely asked the company to inform state officials. Privacy laws are enforced at the state level in Germany.Stefan Kpsell, an instructor in data protection at the Technical University in Dresden, said Apple could probably settle the controversy surrounding the iPhone 4 by obtaining the consent of German users before the data was forwarded.I think there is probably a fundamental conflict between some Internet business models and German privacy law, Mr. Kpsell said. But in general, evidence shows that most Germans are willing to participate if theres a benefit.For example, 60 percent of households in Germany use a retail bonus card called Payback, owned by Loyalty Partner of Munich, which gives them points that can be used toward future purchases. By participating, consumers give the company the right to collect and market data on their purchasing habits, as well as send them advertising. I would think the same would be possible for Apple, Mr. Kpsell said. Continue reading the main story
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
