Touchstone Medical Imaging patient data accessible online
APT group FruityArmor employs PowerShell to launch attacks, Kaspersky
Learning experiences that count (or that mean the most or really matter)
Researchers gain root access to Android devices using Rowhammer attacks
Revamped GM Bot mobile banking malware spotted in wild
Healthcare data breaches increase, but fewer records compromised
The healthcare industry saw 37 data breaches take place in September with about 250,000 patient records being compromised, but this was a major decrease from the 8.8 million records breached in August.
Cybersecurity preparedness requires threat intelligence information sharing
Argentina, the United States and Vietnam were among the top producers of zombie IP addresses following Russia.
Touchstone Medical Imaging patient data accessible online
Touchstone Medical Imaging patient data accessible online
Tennessee-based Touchstone Medical Imaging is notifying an undisclosed number of patients that their personal information  including Social Security numbers  had inadvertently been made accessible via the internet.
How many victims? Undisclosed. Touchstone Medical Imaging did not return a SCMagazine.com request for the information.
What type of personal information? Names, addresses, dates of birth, telephone numbers, health insurer names, radiology procedures, diagnoses and Social Security numbers.
What happened? A folder containing patient billing information had inadvertently been made accessible via the internet.
What was the response? The folder was secured and removed from public view. Touchstone Medical Imaging is reinforcing the education of employees and the monitoring of systems regarding the protection of patient information. All impacted patients are being notified.
Details: The incident impacted patients who had radiology procedures prior to August 2012. Touchstone Medical Imaging became aware that the folder was accessible on May 9. An internal investigation initially suggested the information in the folder was not readable, but on Sept. 5, new information revealed that the information may have been readable.
Quote: We have no knowledge and there is no indication that any patient information has been used improperly, according to a notification posted to the Touchstone Medical Imaging website.
Source: touchstoneimaging.com, Notice To Patients Regarding Privacy Incident, Oct. 3, 2014.
Unencrypted laptop stolen from Community Technology Alliance
Valeritas notifies all employees of possible data breach
FHSU former student data inadvertently posted online
Data on 97K Bugzilla users posted online for about three months
Former employee posts data online, 10K impacted in Missouri school district
You must be a registered member of SC Magazine to post a comment.
Valeritas notifies all employees of possible data breach
Texas school district's student data potentially compromised
Katy Independent School District (ISD) in Texas is alerting select students that their information may have been compromised by a third-party vendor.
Data breach and ransomware hit Hutchinson Community Foundation
The Hutchinson Community Foundation in Kansas was hit with a data breach and ransomware attack.
Central Ohio Urology Group reports 300K records compromised
The Central Ohio Urology Group reported that in early August it became aware of an incident where an unauthorized posted patient and employee information to Twitter.
SC Magazine arms information security professionals with the in-depth, unbiased business and technical information they need to tackle the countless security challenges they face and establish risk management and compliance postures that underpin overall business strategies.
Copyright  2016 Haymarket Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorization.
Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of Haymarket Media's Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
