Mobile Security Specialist Lookout to Announce New Chief Executive - The New York Times
Mobile Security Specialist Lookout to Announce New Chief Executive
Mobile Security Specialist Lookout to Announce New Chief Executive
SAN FRANCISCO  Lookout, the mobile security company, will announce on Thursday that it is bringing in a new chief executive.
Jim Dolce, a Silicon Valley veteran, will take over the leadership role.
John Hering, the companys co-founder and current chief executive, will become executive chairman  an extremely active executive chairman, Mr. Hering said on Wednesday before the companys announcement. He will continue to work on Lookouts strategic partnerships and be involved in the companys day-to-day operations.
PhotoJim Dolce has founded four companies, among them Verivue, a content delivery company, which sold to Akamai Technologies in 2012.Credit
The transition highlights the growth of Lookout, as well as the growing market for security solutions to the so-called bring your own device phenomenon.
Use of the Lookout mobile app  which backs up data, tells users if other apps are siphoning their information, locates lost or stolen phones, and emails users a snapshot of the thief if he fails to guess their pass code  has increased 200-fold over the last three years and is now used by 50 million consumers.
Today, those tens of millions of devices act as global sensors, feeding threat information to Lookouts Mobile Threat Network, which tracks and analyzes malicious activity and helps researchers anticipate criminals next moves.
Lookout, which began as an app for smartphones, is now marketing its threat intelligence to businesses desperate to get ahead of computer viruses and malware.
The companys potential has had venture capitalists, and even some telecommunications companies, eager to invest. It has raised over $130 million from venture capital firms like Accel Partners, Greylock Partners and Peter Thiels venture firm, Mithril Capital Management, as well as Qualcomm Ventures, Deutsche Telekom and others. The latest round of investment valued the company at approximately $1 billion.
Mr. Dolce, an industry veteran, founded and expanded four companies,among them Unisphere, a network equipment maker, which sold to Juniper Networks for $740 million in 2002. In 2012, he sold Verivue, a content delivery company, to Akamai Technologies. Despite his sales record, Mr. Dolce andMr. Hering said they had no plans to sell Lookout, nor are they ready for an initial public offering.
We have a lot of building to do here, Mr. Dolce said in an interview Wednesday. Well, its not a start-up, but its still far from ready for an I.P.O.
Originally, Mr. Hering and the other co-founders, Kevin Mahaffey and James Burgess, set out to hire a chief operating officer. But last November, Mr. Hering said he was introduced to Mr. Dolce by Ping Li, a board member and venture capitalist at Accel Partners.
After the two met in person in January, Mr. Dolce said he realized that Lookout was at the convergence of four major technology trends  the cloud, mobile, security and Big Data  and the opportunity to join the company was too good to pass up.
I dont play golf, Mr. Dolce joked. In fact, I hate golf.
Mr. Hering said that from their discussions, it was clear Mr. Dolce was the missing piece to help take Lookout the distance.
Accel Partners, Computer Security, Greylock Partners, Lookout Inc, Mithril Capital Management
Visit the Technology section for complete coverage of the industry. 
