Doorstep Canvassing Can Shift Views on Transgender Rights, Study Finds - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Science|Doorstep Canvassing Can Shift Views on Transgender Rights, Study Finds
Doorstep Canvassing Can Shift Views on Transgender Rights, Study Finds
The Los Angeles L.G.B.T. Center was a pioneer in a canvassing technique that a new study found to be effective at softening opposition to transgender rights.
Door-to-door political canvassers can soften the attitudes of some voters who are resistant to transgender rights by prompting them to reflect on their own experiences of being treated differently, researchers reported on Thursday.The study, published by the journal Science, is a follow-up of a widely covered 2014 report that had a similar conclusion but was subsequently retracted. That paper, also published in Science, found that canvassers could reduce some opposition to same-sex marriage but only if the canvassers were gay.The new study was conducted by a pair of political science researchers  David E. Broockman at Stanford, and Joshua Kalla at the University of California, Berkeley  who had found design problems in the original article and had raised questions about the validity of the data. The journal pulled the paper in May 2015 after the lead author could not furnish those original data.In their study, Dr. Broockman and Mr. Kalla found support for the central claim of the first paper: that a particular kind of face-to-face conversation, drawing out voters own experiences, could produce a lasting shift in opinion. But in contrast to the first paper, they found the effect was the same whether the canvasser was straight, gay or transgender.Outside experts said the study could provide a template to test canvassing approaches on a broad range of issues. Knowing the literature on political persuasion, I would have bet against them finding what theyre reporting now, said Arthur Lupia, a professor of political science at the University of Michigan. The idea that doorstep canvassing can change minds at all is a big deal; the fact that its a transgender issue just ups the ante.
The new study tracked the attitudes of voters in Miami-Dade County, Fla., who were canvassed in early 2015 after the county had passed an ordinance protecting transgender people from discrimination, and after opponents promised a challenge. The canvassers included 56 volunteers from the Los Angeles L.G.B.T. Center, which had pioneered the use of these respectful, candid doorstep conversations; and from SAVE, South Floridas largest organization promoting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights.A total of 1,825 voters took an online survey of their views, in which questions about transgender people were embedded among queries on other issues. The researchers randomly assigned half this group to receive either the treatment  the conversation about transgender rights  or a placebo, a conversation about recycling. And the researchers randomly assigned territories to canvassers who identified themselves as transgender, or nontransgender.
Of these voters, 501 agreed to fill out follow-up surveys via email, three days after being canvassed, and again three weeks, six weeks, and three months later.Analyzing those answers, Dr. Broockman and Mr. Kalla found that the views of about one in 10 of the voters canvassed on transgender issues had shifted in favor of equal rights  by an average of about 10 points on one measure, called the feelings thermometer. Ten points on that scale is roughly the amount that the American public shifted in its views on gay rights between 1998 and 2012, a period when eight states legalized same-sex marriage.And one in 10 voters, Dr. Lupia said, is larger than it may sound: Any presidential candidate would welcome that kind of effect from a doorstep conversation.To test the resilience of the attitudes of the canvassed voters, the researchers showed each one an attack ad video used elsewhere to challenge transgender protections like Miami-Dades. Those ads hit their mark, immediately reducing voters support; but the effect was short-lived, and that support rebounded weeks later, the study found.
Every week, we'll bring you stories that capture the wonders of the human body, nature and the cosmos.
The moment for me, when I knew we had something, was when we got the data back from the three-week survey, and found that the effects persisted completely and remained large, said Dr. Broockman, as assistant professor in Stanfords graduate school of business.The researchers, however, had no way to test whether those changed attitudes would translate into altered votes.The finding is a validation of the Los Angeles L.G.B.T. Centers work, which it calls deep canvassing. The center had commissioned the first study in 2014 to see whether its door-to-door work to build support for gay marriage in Southern California was getting traction. That by itself made it a somewhat novel project, in that political activists rarely engage academic researchers to do controlled studies  or vice versa.When that study collapsed amid questions about the data, the most frustrating thing was that it left the center with no idea how effective we were, said David Fleischer, director of the centers Leadership Lab.
The only saving grace was that we knew we had David Broockman and Josh Kalla measuring this for real, Mr. Fleischer said.To forestall any of the kinds of questions that brought down the gay marriage study in 2014, the authors of the new one preregistered their design; cataloged their original findings at a data site accessible to other researchers; and had an independent scientist review their work before submitting it to the journals review.In an editorial accompanying the new study, Elizabeth Levy Paluck, an associate professor of psychology and public affairs at Princeton, concluded: Social scientists would do well to continue collaborating with practitioners on the design and study of these brief but meaningful interactions.
Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: Study Sees a Way to Shift Views on Transgender Rights.
How Do You Change Voters Minds? Have a Conversation
Study Using Gay Canvassers Erred in Methods, Not Results, Author Says
Study on Attitudes Toward Same-Sex Marriage Is Retracted by a Scientific Journal
Doubts About Study of Gay Canvassers Rattle the Field
How Do You Change Voters Minds? Have a Conversation
Study Using Gay Canvassers Erred in Methods, Not Results, Author Says
Study on Attitudes Toward Same-Sex Marriage Is Retracted by a Scientific Journal
Doubts About Study of Gay Canvassers Rattle the Field
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
