Boy arrested over TalkTalk hacking sues newspapers for privacy breach | Business | The Guardian
Boy arrested over TalkTalk hacking sues newspapers for privacy breach
Lawyers take action taken against Sun, Daily Mail and Telegraph over claims they identified minor accused of breaking into mobile providers network
As well as the three newspapers, Google and Twitter have also been named in a legal action in Belfast over an alleged breach of the boys privacy.
A teenage boy arrested over the TalkTalk hacking breach is suing three national newspapers over an alleged breach of his privacy.
Lawyers for the 15-year-old are taking legal action against The Sun, Daily Mail and the Daily Telegraph over allegations they identified the minor accused of breaking into the mobile and broadband providers data network.
The Daily Telegraph named the boy on its website after he was arrested at his home in County Antrim. The minors name was later removed.
Google and Twitter have also been named in a legal action at Belfast high court again over an alleged breach of the boys privacy. Details emerged over the weekend about the privacy case after a judge lifted reporting restrictions.
The boy was interviewed by detectives from the Metropolitan police and the Police Service of Northern Ireland on suspicion of offences under the Computer Misuse Act before being released on bail.
Since then the boys lawyers have issued writs claiming negligence, misuse of private information, defamation, breach of confidence and data protection.
In court on Friday, the boys lawyers claimed his family has had to move home as a result of the publicity surrounding his arrest and identification by the three papers and online. A barrister for the boy said the content contributed to his client being stigmatised within his community.
Lawyers acting for the Daily Mail rejected allegations that the paper had identified the boy. They argued that the newspaper had taken steps to alter the boys appearance and even change the colour of his hair from a photograph of him that was posted online.
Reporting restrictions were lifted late on Friday after Google and Twitter agreed to remove information about the boy from its networks.
An order prohibiting the publication of any material that could lead to the boy being identified remains in place. This includes his name, address, images or any other material about his appearance. The case is due to be heard again next month.
During coverage of the boys arrest last month, the Guardian took the decision not to follow other news organisations online who were publishing details about the boy, including his name.
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
