Fancy a little kinky sex? GCHQ+NSA will know - thanks to ANGRY BIRDS  The Register
NASA gives blacked-out Kepler space 'scope the kiss of life
We're not in Kansas City anymore, Toto ... Google axes free fiber internet
Bibliotheca Alexandrina buys a Huawei superdupercomputer
Bibliotheca Alexandrina buys a Huawei superdupercomputer
Seagate's Kinetic drives: They're moving... but in what direction?
Canonical steps up to the NexentaEdge, jumps aboard OpenStack
Former Microsoft HoloLens man: It's NOT about gaming
BlackBerry boss kills off BB 10 OS, mulls mid-range Androids
Dear Windows, OS X folks: Update Flash now. Or kill it. Killing it works
Read America's insane draft crypto-borking law that no one's willing to admit they wrote
We're not in Kansas City anymore, Toto ... Google axes free fiber internet
UK competition watchdog gripes to Brussels about Three-O2 merger
Popular cable modem vulnerable to remote reboot/reset flaw
Telstra being paid to fix Telstra's network for NBN  AGAIN
Baddies' brilliant plan to get mobile malware whitelisted: Bribery
SQL injection vuln found at Panama Papers firm Mossack Fonseca
British booter bandit walks free after pleading guilty to malware sales
Anonymised search engine page found on 'kid-friendly' search site
Met cops shop for 150m IT system. Must have: Data centre ops
Puppet snags COO, ties up partners, and renames itself
Continuous Lifecycle: Just ten conference tickets left
Wanna be a DevOps expert? Youll have to be a Red Hat expert first
Dell infosec unit SecureWorks given $1.42bn price tag in IPO
Citrix asks you, yes you, to write its certification exams and courseware
BlackBerry boss kills off BB 10 OS, mulls mid-range Androids
FBI, Apple continue cat-and-mouse game over iPhones in New York
Look who's here to solve the Internet of Things' security nightmare  hey, it's Uncle Sam
Read America's insane draft crypto-borking law that no one's willing to admit they wrote
NASA gives blacked-out Kepler space 'scope the kiss of life
Saturn spacecraft immune to mysterious Planet 9's charms
Europe's biggest radiotelescope in fast-burst-finding upgrade
Bavarian town rescinds Hitler's honorary citizenship
Florida weed suspect cuffed after hoverboard pursuit
Brits rattle tin for 'revolutionary' hydrogen-powered car
Fancy a little kinky sex? GCHQ+NSA will know - thanks to ANGRY BIRDS
Evil spooks slurped EVERYTHING about your life from app's phone-home data
At last: Boffins have an answer to EXPLODING Li-ion, Earth-poisoning alkaline batteries
Samsung Bend-ghazi blast: We DEMAND a do-over on Galaxy S6 Edge
Don't be stiffed by spies, stand up to Uncle Sam with your proud d**k pics  says Snowden
Some of the world's most popular smartphone applications are telling British and American intelligence agencies everything about you  from your location to your politics or whether you're part of the swinging set.
That's according to classified documents leaked by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden.
The dossier, published today by ProPublica and The New York Times, show the NSA and its Brit counterpart GCHQ were working together on exploiting smartphones in 2007, the same year as the first iPhone launched. The NSA nearly quadrupled its budgets for such monitoring from $204m to $767m that year.
A top-secret report compiled by the NSA shortly after that time boasted the agency had collected so much information from phones running Google's mapping applications that "you'll be able to clone Google's database." In 2008 British intelligence reported "anyone using Google Maps on a smartphone is working in support of a GCHQ system."
Poorly secured mobile apps have proved to be a "golden nugget," according to a May 2010 NSA presentation: harvesting sensitive data sent over public networks by applications is not a problem, but it was a little trickier to tag the intercepted information in the agency's XKeyscore database so that analysts could easily pull up a person's records. In the same year a British analyst described the development of smartphone slurping as a "mobile surge," comparing it to the surge of US and allied troops into Iraq and Afghanistan.
A 2012 British intelligence document states that the immensely popular Angry Birds game from Finnish developer Rovio had become a useful source thanks to advertising code added by US firm Millennial Media.
Millennial's tracking software generates a personal record for each user that can store information from their political affiliation and sexual orientation to whether their marital state was single, married, divorced, engaged or "swinger." This information is used to target in-app ads more effectively, and can be collected by UK and US intelligence agencies for analysis, we're told.
The documents don't suggest that NSA and GCHQ staffers are directly hacking mobile applications. Instead it's made clear the snoopers are simply skimming and decoding sensitive data the apps collect and transmit back to their developers. One report noted that anyone updating Android on a device will leak about 500 slurpable records describing how the gadget was used by its owner.
NSA does not profile everyday Americans as it carries out its foreign intelligence mission, the agency said in a statement. Because some data of US persons may at times be incidentally collected in NSA's lawful foreign intelligence mission, privacy protections for US persons exist across the entire process, with similar protections for innocent foreign citizens.
GCHQ declined to comment on the allegations, but said its activities were compliant with today's UK law. Google and Millennial Media havent commented as yet.
Your tinfoil hat is useless  your browser lets spies into your mind
Other Snowden-sourced information published by NBC News today revealed [PDF] that in 2012 GCHQ developed technology, code named Squeaky Dolphin, to spy on people en masse as they used social networks and other big-name websites.
The British tapped into internet data cables running though the UK and scooped out Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Blogger visits to see what's trending online and where hotspots of interest spring up around the world in various topics.
The Human Science Operations Cell also compiled data on what a particular browser choice told them about a user's behavior. Internet Explorer users scored lowest in being open to new experiences but highest in "agreeableness" and "conscientiousness," while Firefox users are the most neurotic, apparently.
But Snowden, who gave his first TV interview for German network ARD on Sunday, claims that the NSA wasn't above hacking business systems if it felt the information would further US interests. He said that the German manufacturer Siemens was a particular favorite among spies in this regard, and that non-key German government targets may also have been infiltrated.
"What I can say is that we know that [German Chancellor] Angela Merkel was monitored by the NSA. But the question is how logical is it that she's the only one who was monitored, how likely is it that she was the German person the NSA was watching?" he said, Reuters reports.
"I'd say that it's not very likely that anyone who was watching the German government was only watching Merkel and not her advisers nor other government officials nor ministers, heads of industries or even local government officials."
Snowden said he no longer had any NSA documents himself, having passed them all on to journalists around the world. Despite death threats from certain excitable US intelligence operatives, Snowden said he was unconcerned for his safety.
"I'm still alive and don't lose sleep for what I did because it was the right thing to do," he added. 
Court to Wikimedia: Your NSA spying evidence is inadmissable, so you can't prove NSA spying
LG picks up US smartphone crumbs, gains on Apple and Samsung
Future Snowden hunt starts with audit of NSA spooks' privileges
Speaking in Tech: Did the FBI not ask the NSA to take a crack at breaking iOS?
Gartner: RIP double-digit smartphone growth. 2016 has killed you
Microsoft can stop worrying about smartphone non-strategy
How NSA continued to spy on American citizens' email traffic  from overseas
Hacker attacks are evolving to target applications and to focus on financial gain. This report brings you the key findings and conclusions of this year-long research effort.
According to Gartner analyst Allan Daley, we are living in an unstructured, data nightmare.
Failure to balance data security and quality reduces confidence in decision making. Read this e-Book for tips on securing big data environments
eBook: The Guide to Selecting Flash for Virtual Environments
Flash storage allows for a higher number of virtual machines (VM) per host.
BlackBerry boss kills off BB 10 OS, mulls mid-range Androids
Popular cable modem vulnerable to remote reboot/reset flaw
SQL injection vuln found at Panama Papers firm Mossack Fonseca
Former Microsoft HoloLens man: It's NOT about gaming
PC World's cloudy backup failed when exposed to ransomware
You say I mustnt write down my password? Let me make a note of that
Norman Conquest, King Edward, cyber pathogen and illegal gambling all emerge in Apple v FBI
BlackEnergy malware activity spiked in runup to Ukraine power grid takedown
Learn things? DROWN HTTPS flaw proves we don't even test things
New Free Guide: How to fix SQL Server deadlocks. Read now
Sign up to The Register to receive newsletters and alerts
Independent news, views, opinions and reviews on the latest in the IT industry. Offices in London, San Francisco and Sydney.
