Wise businesses listen to consumers' privacy concerns | Media Network | The Guardian
Wise businesses listen to consumers' privacy concerns
Big brands are showing the way by saying people should be in control of their own data
Companies are understandably excited about the potential of customer data, but privacy must remain a priority.
Debates around surveillance, hacking and increased data collection have made many of us more sensitive to privacy  enough so that some companies are using it as a selling point. Apple chief executive Tim Cook recently said that customers should be in control of their own information, pitting his company against rivals such as Google by claiming to use data only to improve its products rather than to sell for revenue. Theyre gobbling up everything they can learn about you and trying to monetise it, he said.
In the UK, One in three are more concerned about privacy online than they were a year ago
Apple is hardly the first company to make privacy a selling point, but it remains unclear exactly how much consumers value, or even define, privacy.
F-Secure analyst Sean Sullivan has been researching consumer and business attitudes towards privacy for several months. He says while the people hes interviewed say they value their own space, they dont necessarily care about privacy as a wider issue. Members of the public do not care about privacy  but they do care about their privacy, he says, highlighting the confusion around how individuals feel about the issue.
But it does seem as though Brits increasingly care about privacy: a TRUSTe survey earlier this year showed that one in three are more concerned about privacy online than they were a year ago.
Its not tough to guess whats behind the shift; privacy has started to get more attention, helped by high-profile debates around Edward Snowden, the value of encryption and increasing government surveillance online. The subject is a sexier one now, in the news more, and people like me are more in demand as a result, says University of East Anglia law lecturer Paul Bernal. The privacy course I run at my university has more than doubled in intake over the past two years, as has our general internet law class, which includes a lot of privacy.
A business cares about its bottom line, so if privacy helps that, it will consider privacy a priority
Whether this represents a real shift towards privacy remains to be seen, however. We will have to wait to see if behaviour actually changes, Bernal notes.
The more people care  or appear to care  about privacy, the more businesses must too. A business cares more than anything else about its bottom line, so if privacy helps its bottom line, it will consider privacy a priority, Bernal says. The public does, however, seem to care more about privacy than it used to, which is why businesses are talking more about it now.
That explains Cooks sudden shift to talking about privacy. Apple sees it as a possible advantage  taking a stance that differentiates it from Google, in particular  which must mean they think people want it, Bernal adds. Google and even Facebook seem to be fighting the US and UK governments over encryption, too, which suggests they think the public wants them to [among other things].
The shift towards privacy protection leaves companies in a tricky position. They are understandably excited about the potential of customer data because it can help them extend sales and improve service.
But Sullivan warns they must be careful not to cross lines into customers personal space: Companies should be a bit more wary  collecting customer data might not be a violation of your customer relationship, but losing control of that data to a hacker definitely is. You cant lose control over what you dont collect, so be conservative and limit what you collect to what you really need.
Companies that collect user data must do better at educating their customers about privacy, Bernal says: Businesses could and should do more to educate their employees and customers, but they should also try to move towards a position where the default option is the privacy-friendly one.
If we have to opt-in to share our data  to be tracked, monitored and analysed rather than have our data shared, and to be tracked and monitored by default, then those wanting our data would have to demonstrate to us that what they do with it is to our benefit, he adds. That could change both perceptions and practice a great deal.
In tough economic times, educating users may seem too expensive, but Bernal says its more likely that improvements on privacy will come from individuals: When people get into better habits with their own data, those habits will spread through the businesses and government bodies for whom they work.
Much of the shift toward more awareness around privacy is down to stories of intrusions, data breaches and the other negative incidents. Two years after Snowdens first revelations, is it time to shift the conversation to a more positive tone?
Sullivan says that may be a challenge, but notes that most of the negative privacy stories are actually about security, suggesting that companies be highlighted for maintaining an appropriate balance in favour of the customer.
The conversation around privacy could shift if its more explicitly tied to ideas such as freedom of expression. Privacy enables rights such as freedom of speech, of assembly and association, very directly, says Bernal. Things such as anonymity, for example, can be portrayed more positively. Good stories about anonymous bloggers, whistleblowers and so forth, and how privacy helps them to remain anonymous and protected and thus able to get their stories out, could emphasise the privacy aspect more.
Some companies have already started down that road, notably Apple, Sullivan says. Apple made a good case that the data it collects is for the purpose of producing better products. If other companies want that positive coverage and to keep their customers happy, they too should consider making privacy a priority.
To get weekly news analysis, job alerts and event notifications direct to your inbox, sign up free for Media Network membership.
All Guardian Media Network content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled Brought to you by  find out more here.
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
