Review: Eric Fairs Consequence, a Memoir by a Former Abu Ghraib Interrogator - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Books|Review: Eric Fairs Consequence, a Memoir by a Former Abu Ghraib Interrogator
Review: Eric Fairs Consequence, a Memoir by a Former Abu Ghraib Interrogator
The infamous photos of torture at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq that became public in the spring of 2004  a pyramid of naked prisoners, a hooded man forced to stand in a crucifixionlike pose, a cowering man on a dog leash  were evidence not of just a few bad apples among the prison guards but, as an Army investigation found, documentation of a systemic problem: Military personnel had perpetrated numerous incidents of sadistic, blatant, and wanton criminal abuses. The abuses had roots in decisions made at the highest levels of the Bush administration, which asserted that the United States need not abide by the Geneva Conventions in its war on terror.Powerful and damning accounts of the Bush administrations determination to work what Vice President Dick Cheney called the dark side and its elaborate efforts to legalize torture (including arduous attempts to narrowly define torture as leading to serious physical injury so severe that death, organ failure or permanent damage is likely to result) can be found in two essential books, The Torture Papers: The Road to Abu Ghraib, edited by Karen J. Greenberg and Joshua L. Dratel, and Standard Operating Procedure, by Philip Gourevitch and Errol Morris. An important personal perspective is now provided by Eric Fairs candid and chilling new book, Consequence, which is at once an agonized confession of his own complicity as an interrogator at Abu Ghraib and an indictment of the system that enabled and tried to justify torture.Mr. Fair, who worked for CACI, a private contractor that provided interrogation services at the prison, participated in or witnessed physical abuse, sleep deprivation and the use of what he calls the Palestinian chair (a monstrous contraption that forces a prisoner to assume an excruciating stress position). He sees naked men handcuffed to chairs, stripped of their dignity and their clothes. He and his colleagues fill out forms and use words like exposure, sound, light, cold, food and isolation  ordinary words that become shorthand for methods of inflicting fear and pain. He rips a chair out from underneath a boy and shoves an old man, head first, into a wall.Of the Abu Ghraib torture photos broadcast by 60 Minutes in April 2004, Mr. Fair writes: Some of the activities in the photographs are familiar to me. Others are not. But I am not shocked. Neither is anyone else who served at Abu Ghraib. Instead, we are shocked by the performance of the men who stand behind microphones and say things like bad apples and Animal House on night shift.
Torture recalled: Black strips placed by censors mask the identity of abused detainees at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq.
In 2007, Mr. Fair says, he confessed everything to a lawyer from the Department of Justice and two agents from the Armys Criminal Investigation Command, providing pictures, letters, names, firsthand accounts, locations and techniques. He was not prosecuted. We tortured people the right way, he writes, following the right procedures, and used the approved techniques.Mr. Fair, however, became increasingly racked by guilt. He begins having nightmares. Nightmares in which someone I know begins to shrink, becoming so small they slip through my fingers and disappear onto the floor. Nightmares in which theres a large pool of blood on the floor that moves as if its alive, nipping at his feet.His marriage starts to unravel. He drinks heavily despite a heart condition that threatens his health. When his best friend from Iraq, Ferdinand Ibabao, is killed by a suicide bomber in Baghdad, Mr. Fair thinks that maybe he, too, deserves to die there. He returns to Iraq for another tour  this time, in a job with the National Security Agency.
Mr. Fair recounts all this in understated, staccato prose. He tells us about the important role the church played in his childhood in Bethlehem, Pa. He tells us about his dreams of becoming a police officer, or maybe a pastor. And he tells us about the odd twists and turns that took him to Iraq as an interrogator. Continue reading the main story
Having come from a long line of Presbyterians who valued their faith and marched off to war, Mr. Fair enlisted in the Army in 1995, stumbled into one of its language programs and became an Arabic linguist. The diagnosis of a heart condition in 2002 would mean he could not continue in his postmilitary career as a police officer or re-enlist in the Army when the invasion of Iraq began in early 2003. Working for CACI, which requested no medical exam, was a way for him to ensure that he didnt miss out on the war.Mr. Fair draws an alarming portrait of CACI as disorganized and unprofessional in its deployment of civilians, not to mention dangerous and irresponsible: as former soldiers and marines, none of us were comfortable with the lack of planning, lack of support and lack of proper supplies, he writes. No weapons, no communications equipment, no maps and nothing for first aid. We all expect something to go wrong very soon.Things are chaotic at Abu Ghraib, where Mr. Fair is assigned to a team tasked with debriefing former associates of Saddam Hussein. He writes that it is never entirely clear how the Army determines whether any of us have the proper security clearance, and the shortage of interrogators means there are thousands of detainees who will never be processed.
Those detainees are given no information about their status, he observes, and they have no way of knowing when or if they will see their families again. Some of them are guilty; some of them are not. All of them are jailed under intolerable circumstances. Military intelligence officers would tell the Red Cross that an estimated 70 percent to 90 percent of the detainees had been arrested by mistake.Some of Mr. Fairs descriptions of Abu Ghraib and the National Security Agency facilities at Camp Victory recall the absurdities of Catch-22 and Animal Farm, but here the sense of the absurd is infused with real horror and injustice. He writes that he and his colleagues were encouraged by supervisors to be creative, that they often struggled to understand what detainees were saying because of dialect problems, and that they learned to justify the use of different forms of torture by calling them enhanced techniques and filling out the appropriate paperwork.Mr. Fair says he and Mr. Ibabao often thought about quitting but didnt want to be seen as the type of people who arent cut out for doing their part in the war. At home, he will come to realize that he needs to earn his way back as a human being: He does not believe he will ever be redeemed, but thinks he is obligated to try.He begins writing about what he did and what he witnessed  first, with articles for The Washington Post and The New York Times, and now, with this profoundly unsettling book. He is still haunted by voices: the voice of the general from the comfortable interrogation booth, the cries from the hard site, the sobs from the Palestinian chair and the sound of the old mans head hitting the wall.It is nearly impossible to silence them, he writes. As I know it should be.
Follow Michiko Kakutani on Twitter: @michikokakutani
A version of this review appears in print on April 5, 2016, on page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Penitent Stalked by Abu Ghraib.
These Two Guys Are Changing How We Think About Fashion
For Staff on Naked and Afraid, Work Is Just a Blur
Merle Haggard and Okie From Muskogee, the Hit That Helped and Hurt Him
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
