The Police Departments 105th Precinct runs along the citys border with Nassau County, from the northern reaches of Queens to Kennedy International Airport, in the south.
Fourteen years after City Councilman Mark S. Weprin, Democrat of Queens, appealed to the Giuliani administration to split it in two, he is supporting legislation in Albany to do the same.
Sadly, the situation has not changed, Mr. Weprin said in a recent statement.
Back then, in 1998, Mr. Weprin was a state assemblyman and fighting to divide the 105th Precinct into two sections over residents concerns that its boundaries were too vast to allow for effective police coverage  the precinct stretches about 12 miles from end to end.
Today, as a city councilman, Mr. Weprin is still hoping the change can come about through bills introduced by State Senator Tony Avella and Assemblyman Edward C. Braunstein, both Democrats of Queens.
This is a battle worth fighting, Mr. Weprin said.
The Citizens Crime Commission of New York City has a new cybercrime feature on its Web site to help New Yorkers protect their computer systems and pocketbooks from hackers and identity thieves.
In addition to primers on subjects like phishing (in which criminals try to steal personal information from someone online by posing as a well-known company or institution), and pharming (rerouting users to phony Web sites), the cybercrime page, a portal for information from the F.B.I., is chock full of sobering statistics. For example: 35 complaints are received per hour by the Internet Crime Complaint Center,
and United States businesses lost $4 billion to online fraud in 2008, at the peak of illegal computer hacking activities.
Just before the new feature went up on the Crime Commissions Web site late last month, its president, Richard Aborn, moderated a panel discussion on cyber crime that was co-sponsored by the Crime Commission and the Institute for Public Knowledge at New York University.
Cybercrime is a product of the Internet age, Mr. Aborn said in an e-mail. It transcends geographic borders and legal jurisdictions, but unlike a dark alley late at night, the threat is far less obvious. The Crime Commission is proud to partner with the F.B.I. to make sure that individuals and businesses can protect themselves against this costly and serious crime.
A benefit is being planned for the four daughters of Officer Peter J. Figoski, who was shot dead while responding to a robbery in Brooklyn in December. (Separately, the Peter Figoski Scholarship Fund, established to help support the education of his daughters, ages 14 to 20, has raised more than $2 million).
The benefit will be held on Feb. 27 at the Lindenwood Diner and Restaurant at 2870 Linden Boulevard, in Brooklyn. Fliers around 1 Police Plaza, adorned with a Patrolmens Benevolent Association logo, say the event will begin around 9 p.m.
Al Baker, police bureau chief for The New York Times  and the son of a police lieutenant  brings you inside the nations largest police force every Thursday. Mr. Baker can be reached at
New Yorkers Want to Keep Parking Stickers, Poll Says
Woman Charged With 1987 Baby Kidnapping to Plead Guilty
New York Today is still going strong! Though no longer on City Room, New York Today continues to appear every weekday morning, offering a roundup of news and events for the city. You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com or in the morning, on The New York Times homepage or its New York section. You can also receive it via email.
Metropolitan Diary continues to publish! Since 1976, Metropolitan Diary has been a place for New Yorkers, past and present, to share odd fleeting moments in the city. We will continue to publish one item each weekday morning and a round-up in Monday's print edition.
You can find the latest entries at nytimes.com/diary and on our New York section online.
City Room, a news blog of live reporting, features and reader conversations about New York City, has been archived. Send questions or suggestions
