Review: The Girlfriend Experience, a Window Into Upscale Transactional Sex - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Television|Review: The Girlfriend Experience, a Window Into Upscale Transactional Sex
Review: The Girlfriend Experience, a Window Into Upscale Transactional Sex
Riley Keough takes an alternative career track in the The Girlfriend Experience on Starz.
The Girlfriend Experience is a show about selling flesh, but its true fetish is for glass.Set in the law offices, restaurants and pricey hotels of Chicago, this half-hour drama is in love, or lust, with glass-walled dining rooms, translucent office partitions, shimmering skyscraper exteriors. It relishes the gleaming curve of fine stemware; there are more crystal goblets filled with red wine than on The Good Wife, Scandal and the fourth hour of Today put together.That aesthetic  seductive and cool and expensive  captures both the tone and the subject of this icy but intriguing limited series, beginning on Sunday on Starz, about a law student who becomes an elite prostitute. (The full 13-episode series will be available to subscribers the same day, online and on demand.)The Girlfriend Experience is suggested by the 2009 Steven Soderbergh film of the same title, but although Mr. Soderbergh is an executive producer, its no remake. Mr. Soderberghs slice of life was set amid the financial collapse of 2008, with the porn star Sasha Grey as an escort contemplating the next stage of her career. It was a moody, flat-affect film about money having its way even as money was losing its way.For TV, Mr. Soderbergh handed off the title to the indie filmmakers Lodge Kerrigan and Amy Seimetz, who shared writing and directing duties. Theyve kept some of the art house sensibility but reconceived the story as a business-of-pleasure bildungsroman.Christine Reade, played by Riley Keough (Mad Max: Fury Road), starts an internship at a law firm, where shes quickly caught up in office politics involving two ambitious partners, David (Paul Sparks, Boardwalk Empire) and Erin (Mary Lynn Rajskub, 24). Her law school friend Avery (Kate Lyn Sheil) has taken an alternative career track in the sex trade, specializing in a girlfriend experience or GFE the temporary, bespoke semblance of a relationship.
Nicholas Campbell, left, and Riley Keough in The Girlfriend Experience.
Christine joins Avery to meet a client, assuming an alias, and discovers that shes not just good at role-playing but also drawn to it. Theres money, of course  thousands a night  but also a feeling of control. You gradually get the sense that the guarded, composed Christine sees all relationships as transactional. (Youre like a female Ted Bundy, a client tells her. He sort of means it as a compliment.)Starz has a long history of larding up its dramas with sex, from the political romps of Boss to the beefcake battles of Spartacus. More recently, the historical fantasy Outlander has reversed the usual pay-cable gaze by emphasizing the sexual agency of its female lead. Girlfriend has ample soft-core moments, but Mr. Kerrigan and Ms. Seimetz are more interested in sex as performance.
The upscale prostitution in The Girlfriend Experience is about euphemism and appearances  not unlike the shows business world. When Christine interviews with her firm, she adopts a persona, much as when she becomes Chelsea for her GFE work. When she meets with Jacqueline (Alex Castillo), Averys booker, its like a headhunter interview (You dont work for me, you work with me), held in a hushed expense-account restaurant. The settings are sterile, protective, prophylactic.What plot rises and fades over the 13 episodes involves Christines juggling of her two careers. But the series is really more about a character arc, and Ms. Keoughs performance is essential to it. She burns intense but cool, like an LED lamp.
Get recommendations on the best TV shows and films to stream and watch, delivered to your inbox.
Christine is a cipher; even when she has a burst of emotion, its never entirely clear whether its real or calculated. This may make her perfect for her job, but it also leaves open why precisely she does it. The series documents but doesnt answer, letting that mystery serve as the shows engine.The visuals underscore the voyeuristic vibe  all those windows and blinds, facades that allow both separation and penetration. Mr. Kerrigan and Ms. Seimetz trade off directing episodes, but the cinematographer, Steven Meizler, gives the whole work a consistent, glossy minimalism. The directors also used their own collaborators on the soundtrack: Shane Carruth, who directed Ms. Seimetz in Upstream Color, wrote a nervy electronic score for her episodes, while Mr. Kerrigans are haunted by the sound designer David Patersons moody hum.The series is not too eventful. It is, frankly, a little boring. But even when its boring, its absorbing, like an art video playing in the lobby of a boutique hotel.Its a good thing that Starz is offering the option to binge the show; the individual episodes are slight, but the cumulative effect is dreamlike. What lingers are the moments and images, like Christine storming out of a restaurant after an argument, her reflection in a glass wall stalking alongside her, like a ghost.If youre looking for judgment or celebration of Christines trade, good luck. The series is overtly valueless  maybe its about valuelessness, not only in sex work. Its admirable, ambitious and hard to love. But then, love is not what The Girlfriend Experience is selling.
A version of this review appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Get Paid.
Steven Soderbergh on Rebooting The Girlfriend Experience for TV
Steven Soderbergh on Rebooting The Girlfriend Experience for TV
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
