Migrant Children Deserve a Voice in Court - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
The Opinion Pages|Migrant Children Deserve a Voice in Court
In this time of political absurdity, can it be any surprise that a federal immigration judge insists that toddlers can represent themselves in immigration court?The judge, Jack Weil, did not appear to be joking when, in a deposition in a federal lawsuit, he told a lawyer from the American Civil Liberties Union: Ive taught immigration law literally to 3-year-olds and 4-year-olds. It takes a lot of time. It takes a lot of patience. They get it.The case, brought in federal court in Seattle by a coalition of immigrant rights organizations, is challenging the Obama administrations attempts to deport thousands of Central American children who have been detained at the southern border in recent years. The suit seeks to have the government provide lawyers for the children as they go through immigration court.The children are part of an influx of families fleeing persecution in Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador. This emergency has become a political headache for the Obama administration, which has been doing all it can to handle the arrivals of thousands of would-be refugees while deterring future arrivals. Among other tactics, it has been rushing their cases through the clogged immigration courts with the so-called rocket docket and has recently been conducting raids to round up immigrants who have not responded to deportation orders.While federal law does not require that noncitizens be given government-appointed lawyers in immigration proceedings, it does require a full and fair hearing before a judge. Yet the administration argues that it has no constitutional obligation to provide counsel for children in immigration court and refuses to acknowledge the injustice of having children too young to understand the legal process fending for themselves in deportation hearings.The result would be farcical were it not also tragic, because these children face grave danger, if not violent death, in being returned to their home countries.
Not everybody gets this. At a hearing last month in the Senate Judiciary Committee, Jeff Sessions of Alabama, one of Washingtons leading nativists, raised an alarm about the children at the border not because they were being denied due process, but because the government was failing to deport them faster. But under international and American law, they have every right to ask for protection.Many of them do lose their cases and are ordered deported, often in absentia if they fail to show up for hearings. Mr. Sessions and others see this as evidence of criminality. More likely its because these children have no one to help them make their case and dont understand what the court expects of them. Immigration advocates note that when children are represented by counsel, they are far more likely to return to court, and far less likely to be ordered deported.
Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, The Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
A bill by Senator Harry Reid would require that the government appoint lawyers for unaccompanied children and for victims of abuse, torture or other violence. It would also require the Department of Homeland Security to make sure immigrant detainees know their rights and responsibilities under the law. But since the bill is unlikely to become law anytime soon, the Obama administration needs to act, now, to ensure that children receive a fair day in court.It could start by reordering the immigration docket to give children and guardians more time to find lawyers. Lawyers with advocacy groups are striving to meet the need, but the caseload is crushing. Theres a lot of government money being spent now to represent unaccompanied children, said Ahilan Arulanantham, an A.C.L.U. lawyer involved in the Seattle case. The government could proceed against children who have counsel, he said, and push to the back of the line those who dont.These children and their lawyers could also pursue remedies outside immigration court  for example, in seeking special visas for victims of human trafficking and other crimes. There should never be a rush to push children who are alone through a process that doesnt begin to resemble justice.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.
A version of this editorial appears in print on March 8, 2016, on page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: Migrant Children, Voiceless in Court.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
