NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Its hard to say how many people in the United States practice polygamy  estimates vary widely, from 20,000 to half a million  but its clear most of their fellow Americans disapprove. In a 2013 Gallup poll about morally controversial issues, a mere 14 percent of the public said they accepted polygamy (only adultery and cloning humans had lower approval rates). An earlier poll found two-thirds of the public felt the government had a right to outlaw the practice, which typically takes the form of a married man also living in a marriage-type relationship with other women. So dont read too much into the popularity of TV shows like Sister Wives and Big Love. The country is not ready for plural marriage.Certainly that was a bet Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. was willing to make last year. In his dissent in Obergefell v. Hodges, the Supreme Court case that recognized a right to same-sex marriage, he sought to capitalize on widespread discomfort with polygamy: It is striking how much of the majoritys reasoning would apply with equal force to the claim of a fundamental right to plural marriage. The majority had outlined a right to marriage that could not be constrained by historical definitions or legislative whim. But if there was nothing special, legally speaking, about the man-woman aspect of traditional marriage, what was so special about the two-person aspect?Roberts intended his argument as a reductio ad absurdum, assuming that defenders of same-sex marriage would be alarmed by the implication. While some rose to the bait  the same-sex marriage advocate Jonathan Rauch, for example, was quick to offer arguments for why polygamy was different  other progressive thinkers, like the political philosopher Elizabeth Brake, embraced the opportunity to explore novel possibilities for marriage reform. In the essay collection AFTER MARRIAGE: Rethinking Marital Relationships (Oxford University, paper, $29.95), edited by Brake, she and nine other philosophers consider what further consequences might be implied by the principles of the same-sex-marriage movement  including, notably, the disestablishment of marriage itself.As traditionally understood, a liberal state lets individuals decide for themselves, whenever possible, how to live, and so it cant justify its policies solely by appeal to controversial moral doctrines. Yet only such doctrines, progressives have argued, could justify limiting the benefits of marriage to male-female couples (or, in an earlier era, to single-race couples). Extending this logic, Brake suggests that the same principle forbids the state to limit the benefits of marriage to romantic-love dyads  which represent just another controversial conception of the good. Surely, she speculates, there are other legal arrangements, less exclusive and less burdened by their history than the institution of monogamous marriage, which could offer support to adult partners, children and caregivers. Contributors to her volume entertain some possibilities: relegating marriage to private contract; replacing marriage with a parenting agreement; modeling marriage on friendship instead of romantic unions; recognizing temporary marriages (those intended to last for only a set time); and allowing polygamy.
Not all the essays are so strenuously avant-garde. One of the more nuanced pieces, by the philosopher Peter de Marneffe, articulates a liberal position on polygamy that opposes its legalization but also its criminalization. The government, according to this view, may legitimately withhold the benefits of marriage from adults in polygamous relationships (on grounds that such relationships characteristically deprive children of material and emotional resources from their father), but may not prosecute them, as is currently possible in some states, for polygamous cohabitation (because this is private consensual sexual activity). Here, de Marneffe finds himself in agreement with the law professor Deborah L. Rhode. In ADULTERY: Infidelity and the Law (Harvard University, $28.95), Rhode concludes that perhaps the most plausible solution to the problem of polygamy is partial legalization: invalidating criminal laws against cohabitation but retaining the prohibition on multiple marriage licenses.In the United States, polygamy is technically a form of adultery, since it involves sexual relations between a married person and someone who is not his or her legal spouse. Adultery remains illegal in 21 states. Rhode, though no fan of adultery, argues that it should not be prohibited by law, because such laws infringe on our constitutionally protected right to privacy  and have proved woefully ineffective, in any event, at protecting the institution of marriage. Laws criminalizing polygamous cohabitation have comparable flaws, she observes.
Sign up to receive a preview of each Sundays Book Review, delivered to your inbox every Friday.
Rhode is sympathetic to efforts to get the government out of peoples bedrooms, and she even notes that polygamy sometimes offers benefits, and not just to the men involved: Some Mormon women consider polygamy a solution to such difficulties as single motherhood, poverty, loneliness and work/family conflicts. And among some African-American women, she reports, an arrangement known as man sharing is considered a route to family stability in communities where high rates of imprisonment and unemployment have created a shortage of potential husbands. But Rhode also cites evidence of practical problems with formally legalizing polygamy. After World War II, France, looking to increase its labor supply, allowed the immigration of polygamous families from Africa  only to encounter difficulties with coerced marriages and excessive demand for government benefits. Continue reading the main story
Aside from questioning the legal status of polygamy, you might also wonder about its biological status  whether it is a natural state of affairs for humans. In OUT OF EDEN: The Surprising Consequences of Polygamy (Oxford University, $29.95), the evolutionary psychologist David P. Barash tackles this issue. Surveying the anthropological, biological and psychological evidence, he argues that humans, like most mammals, are not built for monogamy. Evolutionarily speaking, polygamy was the default setting for human intimacy, and polygyny  an arrangement in which a man mates with a harem of wives  remains our biological inclination. Barash is aware that such a claim about human nature will sound retrograde. But the facts, he insists, are the facts.Barash cites four major pieces of evidence. The first is that in polygynous species, males are generally larger than females, because of the need to compete for access to females. The greater the degree of polygyny, the larger the size difference. (Orangutans are quite polygynous, and the male is 25 to 50 percent larger than the female; gibbons are close to monogamous, and the body sizes of males and females are roughly equal.) The size difference of male and female human beings has suggested to biologists like E.O. Wilson that humans are moderately polygynous by nature.Second, in polygynous species, males are more inclined than females toward violence and physical aggression  and Barashs analysis finds that the ratio between men and women as perpetrators of violent crime is about 10 to 1 across every state in the United States and every country with available data. The third relevant fact is that in polygynous species, females become sexually and socially mature at a younger age than males do (which is also true of humans). And finally, there is the historical record: DNA retrieved from early human fossils, for example, reveals a disparity between a low diversity of Y chromosomes (which are inherited from fathers only) and a high diversity of mitochondrial DNA (which is inherited from mothers only), suggesting that a relatively few men contributed a relatively large fraction of genetic material.Lets assume Barash is right and humans are polygamous by nature. So what? To his credit, Barash does not argue that because polygamy is natural it is desirable. Nor does he imply that monogamy is a stifling social convention imposed on our free animal natures. On the contrary, he notes that monogamy has many advantages as a marital lifestyle (chiefly, it better promotes paternal love and devotion). Monogamy may not be natural, he explains, but some of the best things we do arent those that come naturally. The trouble is that doing those unnatural things  learning a second language as an adult, avoiding sugary foods  isnt easy. If we want to live monogamously, we will be more successful, Barash suggests, if we are honest about the biological forces we are up against.
James Ryerson is a senior staff editor for The Timess Op-Ed page.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page BR31 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Love in the Time of Monogamy.
American Amnesia, by Jacob S. Hacker and Paul Pierson
Virtual Reality Check: Rating the HTC Vive and the Oculus Rift
Better Call Saul Season 2, Episode 8: Touch of Evil
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
