Dont Cry for Merle Haggard. Cry for Country Music. - The New York Times
Dont Cry for Merle Haggard. Cry for Country Music.
Dont Cry for Merle Haggard. Cry for Country Music.
PhotoMerle Haggard in 2015.Credit Owen Sweeney/Invision, via Associated Press
When you read all the tributes today to the late Merle Haggard, all the mournful praise about what a great songwriter he was, remember that a big part of country music today has no interest in Mr. Haggards big themes, the rage and sorrow of the working man. What you hear on the country airwaves today are generic party tunes by gym-toned guys singing about beer and fast cars and sex on pickup-truck tailgates. (Some call it bro country and even its major purveyors find it embarrassing. Whatever you call it, Mr. Haggard hated it.)
According to an interview in 1995, he liked Iris DeMent.
Ms. DeMent, who writes and sings country and gospel with a voice thats wise, sorrowful and unforgettable, appeared on a Haggard tribute album, Tulare Dust. Mr. Haggard said her contribution, a cover of Big City, was his favorite song on the record:
I think she is one of the greatest singers I have ever heard in my life. I heard her on my tribute, went out and bought what was available, which was two albums. Found out shes a new artist and she cant get played because shes too goddamned good. Shes got too much to say, songs mean too much. They make too much sense. Theres not the same line dance tempo going on. If I hear another line dance song I think Im going to puke.
In the spirit of good country tunes, and of not puking, here are two videos. One is Ms. DeMent singing Big City.
This is Mr. Haggard covering Ms. DeMents lament on the death of her father, No Time to Cry.
And here, for comparisons sake, are two reflections of the current state of the commercial genre. To paraphrase one of the songs, this is the kind of music that makes you want to roll your windows down. By which I mean it may make you carsick.
Humans Take Up Air Horns To Confront Gangster Turkeys
G.E. Chief Executive Issues Ill-Advised Response to Bernie Sanders
Andrew Rosenthal, The Timess editorial page editor since January 2007, oversees the editorial board, the letters and Op-Ed departments, and Sunday Review. He has held numerous positions at The Times, including assistant managing editor for news, foreign editor, national editor and Washington editor.
Anna North writes on cultural topics for the editorial page and is the editor of this blog.
For information on other frequent contributors, meet the editorial writers for The Times.
Bravo, Bruce: Springsteens Stand Against North Carolina Law
G.E. Chief Executive Issues Ill-Advised Response to Bernie Sanders
Dont Cry for Merle Haggard. Cry for Country Music.
Humans Take Up Air Horns To Confront Gangster Turkeys
Instead of making it easier to vote, conservative ideologues unilaterally reversed longstanding policy to block voters from registering.
As in the United States, a handful of outliers are responsible for the vast majority of global executions, according to Amnesty International.
Daw Aung San Suu Kyis challenge now is to bring about full civilian governance.
Governor Cuomo has to stop playing politics with the higher education of New Yorks urban poor.
A district of Brussels had in effect seceded from Belgium. Europe must fight an ideological battle against Wahhabi Islam.
Dinklage and Dragons: Will Tyrion Win the Game of Thrones?
April is the cruelest month, especially since the gory Game of Thrones is back.
When a man loses his reserve, he gains so much more.
The childrens author, who turns 100 on Tuesday, speaks about her characters, her life and her wisdom.
Is it possible to learn freely in the presence of firearms? Fifty years after a massacre at our university, we are going to find out.
My patient and I both grew up in Europe during World War II. He was Catholic. I was not.
A network of women, most of whom are African-American, are re-defining the health benefits of walking; more than just exercise and weight loss, they find joy and self-confidence when they organize in groups.
Socrates, Cynics and Flat-Nailed, Featherless Bipeds
Should philosophy be systematic or subversive? For a very long time, it's been both.
