Four McLean Hospital backup data tapes go missing, thousands affected - SC Magazine
Spying on iPhones a cinch with 'Su-A-Cyder' homegrown malware kit
Pros examine Mossack Fonseca breach: WordPress plugin, Drupal likely suspects
Energy execs may be too confident in ability to detect threats as cyber attacks ...
Massive DDoS attack could spell trouble for standard protections
WordPress sets up default HTTPS encryption for custom domains
Report: Dark web surprisingly small, with less than 30K sites
The dark web is actually much smaller than you think, and the percentage of websites residing there that provide illegal content and services is also over-exaggerated, according to a new report from Intelliagg and Darksum.
Argentina, the United States and Vietnam were among the top producers of zombie IP addresses following Russia.
Four McLean Hospital backup data tapes go missing, thousands affected
Four McLean Hospital backup data tapes go missing, thousands affected
Massachusetts-based McLean Hospital is notifying about 12,600 individuals that their personal information was on four unencrypted backup data tapes related to the Harvard Brain Tissue Resource Center (HBTRC) that have gone missing.
What type of personal information? Names, dates of birth, diagnoses and Social Security numbers.
What happened? The personal information was on four unencrypted backup data tapes related to the HBTRC that have gone missing.
What was the response? McLean Hospital has implemented encryption of all new backup tapes going forward, as well as enhancements to its process for handling and storage of HBTRC backup data tapes. All affected individuals are being notified.
Details: McLean Hospital learned of the incident on May 29. The backup data tapes contained information on individuals associated with the HBTRC in various capacities, including deceased tissue donors, individuals who registered as potential donors and their family members. McLean Hospital said specialized software, equipment and technical expertise would be required to access the information on the tapes.
Quote: Although to date, we have been unable to locate the missing backup data tapes, we have no reason to believe that any of the information on the tapes has been accessed or used inappropriately, a notification posted to the McLean Hospital website said.
Source: mcleanhospital.org, McLean Hospital Notifies Research Participants of a Privacy Incident, July 28, 2015.
Hundreds of Massachusetts General Hospital patients notified of data incident
PagerDuty requires password change for all customers following breach
Data on 5,300 Healthfirst members caught up in fraud scheme
UCLA Health attacked, data on up to 4.5 million individuals at risk
Orlando Health employee improperly accesses patient medical records
You must be a registered member of SC Magazine to post a comment.
PagerDuty requires password change for all customers following breach
Pros examine Mossack Fonseca breach: WordPress plugin, Drupal likely suspects
Will the Panama Papers change legal firms' cyber practices?
UPDATE: Petya ransomware leverages Dropbox and overwrites hard drives
IT depts. suffering from 'patch fatigue,' study says
W-2 Data Breach places 21K Sprouts Farmers Market employees at risk
3,000 Tidewater Community College workers victimized in W-2 scam
FBI investigating attack against computer networks at U.S. law firms
Worldpay merchant portal allowed merchants to view customer card data
Massive DDoS attack could spell trouble for standard protections
WordPress sets up default HTTPS encryption for custom domains
Costa Rica investigating rigged elections by political hacker
Kentucky State University was hit with a data breach on March 22 when an employee, responding to an email supposedly from the school's president, sent off W-2s for employees and ...
3,000 Tidewater Community College workers victimized in W-2 scam
Tidewater Community College (TCC) in Norfolk, Va., reported the tax information of all its employees was hijacked in a spear phishing scam.
Attacker compromises information of 250K in Bailey's data breach
Outdoor equipment retailer Bailey's Inc. notified its customers their information may have been compromised for more than four years.
SC Magazine arms information security professionals with the in-depth, unbiased business and technical information they need to tackle the countless security challenges they face and establish risk management and compliance postures that underpin overall business strategies.
Copyright  2016 Haymarket Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorization.
Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of Haymarket Media's Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
