How The FBI Caught Paula Broadwell - Business Insider
Here's How The FBI Nailed Paula Broadwell For Harassing Jill Kelley In The Petraeus Sex Scandal
The way the FBI figured out that David Petraeus's biographer
Paula Broadwell was the one harassing Tampa Bay resident and
It's also educational for anyone who imagines that they can
The identification of Paula Broadwell as the harasser, you will
recall, led to the discovery of the Petraeus-Broadwell affair
that has since claimed the job of the former general and CIA
director, caused Broadwell to go into hiding, and opened the
kimono on a bizarro world in which active military generals and
FBI agents appear to devote considerable waking hours to emailing
and IMing with attractive "liaisons" who host massive military
Michael Isikoff and Bob Sullivan of NBC News explain how the
Broadwell and Petraeus were both trained in intelligence. The
method they used to communicate with each other was one perfected
by terrorists. They created anonymous email accounts that
they both had access to. Instead of actually sending emails to
each other, the sender merely saved the email as a draft, and the
recipient then checked the "Draft" folder, found the email, read
it, and deleted it. This method is apparently quite popular with
al Qaeda and teenagers who don't want their parents to know what
When Broadwell began to get jealous of another woman in
Petraeus's life, however, she threw caution and her intelligence
while traveling around the country on a tour to promote her book
to send emails to the Tampa-based woman, Jill Kelley, telling
Some of these emails, say Isikoff and Sullivan, detailed the
"comings and goings" of various military brass from MacDill Air
Force Base in Tampa. These details freaked out the FBI, who
thought that there was a spy at MacDill or within the military.
It took a while for the FBI to figure out Broadwell was the one
sending the emails. But the process was relatively simple, and,
The FBI first researched the IP addresses from which the emails
were sent. Depending on which email accounts were used, this
information would either have been included in the email header
(Yahoo Mail and Outlook) or available via sub-poena from Google (Gmail).
Once the FBI had the IP addresses, it was able to narrow down
their geographic location, homing in on a particular city or
As soon as it had the names of specific establishments, the FBI
likely sub-poenaed information like hotel guest lists.
Then it cross-checked names until the name of one Paula Broadwell
The bottom line, according to privacy research Chris Soghoian? In
this age of electronic communication, anonymity is extremely hard
"We see this again and again. We saw it with the Anonymous (hacker) arrests last year. The
lesson for the rest of us here us you have to go through a lot of
steps to maintain anonymity, and you only have to screw up once,"
said Soghoian. "The FBI was able to pierce the veil of anonymity
even for someone who's been trained. The government only has to
get one clue. You have to be successful 100 percent of the time
You Won't Believe The Recent Developments In The Petraeus Sex
Here's How The FBI Nailed Paula Broadwell For Harassing Jill Kelley In The Petraeus Sex Scandal
Here's How The FBI Nailed Paula Broadwell For Harassing Jill Kelley In The Petraeus Sex Scandal
Brothers share what it was like quitting their corporate jobs to sell ties on the beach and cofound Vineyard Vines, a company worth nearly $1 billion
Soccer star Alex Morgan on her family: 'All that you will achieve, you will owe to them.' Check out the letter from the Olympic gold-medal winner to her 7-year-old self >>
* Copyright  2016 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
