Brussels Attacks Underscore Vulnerability of an Open European Society - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Europe|Brussels Attacks Underscore Vulnerability of an Open European Society
Brussels Attacks Underscore Vulnerability of an Open European Society
Emergency workers on Rue de la Loi in central Brussels on Tuesday after an explosion at the Maelbeek subway station.
PARIS  Since the November attacks in Paris, the Belgian authorities have conducted dozens of raids, combed whole neighborhoods for well-known militants and even locked down the capital for days, all part of promises to step up efforts to root out jihadists.Yet none of that evidently disrupted plans for the attacks on Tuesday at Brusselss main international airport and a subway station in the heart of the capital of the European Union.The new attacks again underscored not only the weaknesses of Belgiums security services, but also the persistence and increasingly dangerous prospect of what several intelligence experts described as a sympathetic milieu for terrorist cells to form, hide and operate in the center of Europe.The attacks have set off a new round of soul-searching about whether Europes security services must redouble their efforts, even at the risk of further impinging on civil liberties, or whether such attacks have become an unavoidable part of life in an open European society.
At the very least, they have exposed the enduring vulnerability of Europe to terrorism in an age of easy travel and communications and rising militancy.Even before the Belgian authorities captured Salah Abdeslam on Friday for his suspected role in the Nov. 13 Paris attacks, which killed 130 people, they had detained or arrested scores of suspects directly or peripherally connected to what they described as a terrorist network linked to the Islamic State.
Brussels Is Latest Target in Islamic States Assault on West
More than 650 Westerners have been killed in attacks carried out or inspired by the Islamic State.
But despite the success in arresting Mr. Abdeslam, Belgium continues to present a special security problem for Europe. Continue reading the main story
The country of just 11.2 million people faces widening derision as being the worlds wealthiest failed state  a worrying mix of deeply rooted terrorist networks; a government weakened by divisions among French, Dutch and German speakers; and an overwhelmed intelligence service in seemingly chronic disarray.It is also home to what Bernard Squarcini, a former head of Frances internal intelligence, described as a favorable ecosystem: an Islamist milieu, and a family milieu, which played an important role in sheltering Mr. Abdeslam and also perhaps in Tuesdays attacks.It shows that they were in a neighborhood that can shelter cells for months, because it is a neighborhood that is favorable to them, he said, referring to Molenbeek, a Brussels district. It is where the Paris attackers lived and where Mr. Abdeslam was able to hide among family and friends.The cultural code of silence in the heavily immigrant district, as well as widespread distrust of already weak government authorities, has provided what amounts to a fifth column or forward base for the Islamic State.For weeks, intelligence operatives had warned that the next major terrorist attack on European soil was simply a matter of time. Even before Tuesday, Mr. Squarcini predicted that there will be an even more serious attack because, he said, there are already the people in place.
Indeed, the presumed orchestrator of the Paris attacks, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, who lived in Molenbeek, boasted to his cousin before he was killed that 90 operatives were dormant, ready for another attack.
Some security and intelligence experts saw Tuesdays blasts as proof that Europes open societies, even under states of emergency, will never be risk-free.But the risks are fatally compounded, some said, by European-wide failures in intelligence sharing and the weakness of a Belgian intelligence service that Mr. Squarcini said lacked the capacity to pick up the weak signals of emerging plots.The Belgians are too limited to be able to treat several objectives at once, Mr. Squarcini said in an interview weeks ago.After a weekend of mutual congratulations over the arrest of Mr. Abdeslam, he said Tuesday, manifestly we didnt see the second wave.But political and social failures have allowed militant cells to become deeply rooted, experts warned, and they were equally or even more worrying. Belgian officials spent weeks looking for Mr. Abdeslam, yet failed to turn up Tuesdays bombers.The mode of action was structured and agreed, said Ralf Jger, the interior minister in North Rhine-Westphalia, a German state next to Belgium. That presumes the formation of a cell. And that is what is frightening: that such a cell could not be discovered.Those who are in place in Europe may now possess improved bomb-making skills and tactics, which can be adapted easily to additional security measures put in place by the police and government authorities.
Police securing the city center of Brussels on Tuesday after blasts at the airport and a downtown subway station.
For instance, striking the check-in counter at the Brussels airport inflicted serious casualties and disrupted air travel while circumventing the millions spent on added security screening before passengers board planes.
Mr. Squarcini said airport security may now have to be revised Continent-wide, to take in even the approach to check-in counters  as is already the case in some parts of the world.Others emphasized that progressive layers of new security measures can go only so far. Absent a military-style occupation, the threat from a well-established network with some degree of local complicity can never be completely forestalled, experts said.This shows the limits of the actions you can undertake in a state of emergency, like the one Belgium had in place for weeks, said Philippe Hayez, a former official with the D.G.S.E., the French external intelligence service.These are time-specific, superficial, added Mr. Hayez, who has written extensively on Europes intelligence challenges. But unless you occupy it militarily, you dont hold a town just by circulating police cars. Were talking about guerrilla terrorism. And theres a population thats complicit.That complicity may be most worrying, he and others said. We are paying for our navet, said Jacques Myard, a French parliamentarian who sits on his countrys intelligence oversight committee. Its not a weakness in intelligence. Its a weakness in society.The sleeper cells have been there, and they are well implanted, said Mr. Myard, a member of the conservative Republican party. For two years, the intelligence services have been telling us: Weve never seen such an influx of terrorist operatives.
What Happened at Each Location in the Brussels Attacks
Maps and diagrams show the extent of the damage at the airport and subway station.
It was unclear whether Tuesdays bombings were a response to Mr. Abdeslams arrest, or long in the works. In either case, said Alain Juillet, who helped reorganize the French external intelligence service as a top official there, its not surprising.
Thats the only thing one can say, he said. We can easily see that Belgium has become a hub.So that when you arrest someone, there will be a reaction, Mr. Juillet said, referring to Mr. Abdeslam.All of this is to say that the implantation of the network is more firm than we thought, Mr. Juillet added. The police were efficient  and yet this happened. So, there is a very strong implantation in Belgium.But the fatal paradox for Europe is that on a border-free Continent, such problems play out transnationally. One countrys failures are necessarily amplified.Now the problems in Belgium are threatening not only lives across Europe, but also the Continents experiment at integration. Whether the European Union, with its commitment to open borders, is strong enough to withstand the strains on top of years of economic crisis already is an ever more open question.It seems that the clear targets of the attacks  an international airport, a metro station close to E.U. institutions  indicate that this terrorist attack is not aimed solely against Belgium, Germanys interior minister, Thomas de Maizire, said at a news conference in Berlin. But against our freedom, freedom of movement, mobility and everyone in the E.U.
A version of this article appears in print on March 23, 2016, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Strikes Heighten Fear of Intelligence Failures.
A Brussels Mentor Who Taught Gangster Islam to the Young and Angry
Revelation on Brussels Attackers Fuels Fears of New Assaults
Johan Van Steen, Legal Expert and Photographer, Dies in Brussels Attacks
More Suspects in Brussels Attacks Arrested in Belgium
Radicalization of a Promising Student Turned Bomb Maker in Brussels
Brussels Attacks Fuel Debate Over Migrants in a Fractured Europe
Porous Borders and Calcified Security Aid Islamic State in Europe
The Arrest of Salah Abdeslam, a Paris Suspect, Ends Manhunt, Not Questions
Brussels Attacks Fuel Debate Over Migrants in a Fractured Europe
Porous Borders and Calcified Security Aid Islamic State in Europe
The Arrest of Salah Abdeslam, a Paris Suspect, Ends Manhunt, Not Questions
Belgian Police Name Man Suspected of Being Salah Abdeslams Accomplice
In Suspects Brussels Neighborhood, a History of Petty Crimes and Missed Chances
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
