With Sing Street, John Carney Evokes His MTV - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Movies|With Sing Street, John Carney Evokes His MTV
Music videos of the 1980s inspired the filmmaker John Carney, whose new film is the period romantic comedy Sing Street.
After making the music-themed dramas Once and Begin Again, the writer-director John Carney knew he needed to change his cinematic tune. There are only so many ways you can show people creatively fashioning a song, Mr. Carney said in a recent phone interview from his hometown, Dublin. It seemed like maybe I should look at another dimension.That new aspect turned out to be an old one: music videos. Mr. Carney, who was born in 1972, drew on his memories of being an Irish schoolboy with dreams of MTV stardom in the 80s to create his new period film, Sing Street. A pop-fueled rom-com, it follows the teenage outcast Conor (Ferdia Walsh-Peelo), who starts a band to impress a local girl (Lucy Boynton) whom he casts in primitive videos (like The Riddle of the Model) that ape the latest trends in rock visuals.As in the film (due out April 15), Mr. Carney played in a group that never came close to hitting the charts. We had a big split, me and the lead guy in the band, because I got into funk and jazz-fusion, and he became a Cure-head, he said, referring to the angsty rock group fronted by Robert Smith. It was a very awkward mix.
In this scene, the band Sing Street records their music video for the song The Riddle of the Model.
It seemed like everyone in Ireland at the time, however, shared an obsession with the burgeoning medium of music videos. It was like aliens beaming onto the TV screen, and the entire family was rapt, even though many of them hated it, Mr. Carney said. You couldnt take your eyes off the TV for that half-hour when Top of the Pops or The Old Grey Whistle Test was on.Mr. Carney selected five clips that had the greatest influence on him as a fledgling filmmaker and discussed why they still echo in his mind to this day.
Old Town (Phil Lynott, 1982; directed by Gerry Gregg, Dave Heffernan and Ken Murphy) The lead vocalist of the Irish rock band Thin Lizzy shot this video in downtown Dublin. You can see the struggle between this gorgeous-looking black guy with this mustache and incredible hair and highwayman look, and the people on the street, who are not extras  theyre just genuine people on Grafton Street, Mr. Carney said. Heres this guy whos a dandy walking through the crowd. The aspirational imagery proved deeply inspirational to Mr. Carney. For me, it was one of those videos that gave me permission to be a pop star in my head, to go off and form a band, he said. Every time it came on TV, I was mesmerized.
Rio (Duran Duran, 1983; directed by Russell Mulcahy) In Sing Street, Conors family argues the merits of this video featuring Simon Le Bon and his pretty-boy band frolicking with beautiful women on a sailboat. Its not exactly the Beatles, is it? declares Conors father (Aidan Gillen). Hes right about that, Mr. Carney said. Duran Duran was not a very good band, and their songs werent classics. Still, the videos visuals represented the ultimate escapist fantasy to a Dubliner: In Ireland, we dont get hot weather, so even if you did go to the beach, everyone was dressed like Victorians. The idea of a bikini-clad model was unbelievable.
Michael Jackson - 'Thriller' Video by michaeljacksonVEVO
Thriller (Michael Jackson, 1983; directed by John Landis) Everyone in Ireland stayed up until midnight to watch it when it premiered, Mr. Carney remembered of the 13-minute monster mini-movie. Apart from its length and the film aspect of it, its just so well made. Its a brilliant piece of choreography. The aspiring auteur was already a fan of Mr. Landiss work from his 1981 horror-comedy, An American Werewolf in London, which prefigured the scary-funny tone of Thriller. Its a masterpiece of bending forms into each other, he said of Werewolf. Its such a barmy idea, and its so often misjudged that you need a little bit of comedy in horror, because horror is too much for people to handle. Its almost seamless in American Werewolf. Its as good as any horror film, and its as good as any comedy film.
Frankie Goes To Hollywood - 'Two Tribes' Video by zttrecords
Two Tribes (Frankie Goes to Hollywood, 1984; directed by Kevin Godley and Lol Creme) President Ronald Reagan and the Soviet leader Konstantin Chernenko engage in a wrestling death match in this satirical poke at Cold War conflicts. Frankie Goes to Hollywood wasnt really a political band, but the riskiness and boldness of the video from a political point of view is something youd never see now, Mr. Carney said. Why arent people writing songs about ISIS, Donald Trump and David Cameron? Pop music is one thing now  98 percent of it is just straight love songs, and thats really boring to me.
The Cure - 'Close to Me' Video by QuestionAuthority2
Close to Me (the Cure, 1985; directed by Tim Pope) Its all set in a wardrobe, and theyre trapped in it on the edge of this cliff, which is the only exterior shot you see, Mr. Carney said. The claustrophobic nature of that video was a very funny and visually arresting idea that really captured the Cure and who they were. Cure-heads are claustrophobic people who look odd in public spaces. Goths always look out of place on a big, bright beach or in a huge park. The Cure still appeals to young fans today, the director said, not just because of its melancholy vibe but also because Robert Smith is a classic songwriter. He could write pop songs that were huge hits, but he was more interested in darker songs youd hear on his albums.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page AR18 of the New York edition with the headline: Wanting, and Evoking, His MTV.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
