Chris Hardwick, King of the Nerds, Is Expanding His Empire - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Television|Chris Hardwick, King of the Nerds, Is Expanding His Empire
Chris Hardwick, King of the Nerds, Is Expanding His Empire
Thats not the Doctor! Chris Hardwick stepping out of his very own Tardis time machine.
LOS ANGELES  It was a typical Tuesday for Chris Hardwick, the excitable ringmaster of nerd culture.Most people know him as the host of AMCs Talking Dead, which has 6.5 million viewers each week, but on this March day the stand-up comedian, podcast pioneer and digital media entrepreneur was devoting a 16-hour stint to the geekier outposts of his empire. In the writers room at @Midnight, the Comedy Central game show in which he and guest comedians riff on Internet culture, Mr. Hardwick cracked jokes about the just-announced return of Harrison Ford as Indiana Jones. Across the studio lot, he recorded his weekly Nerdist podcast with the comedian and musician Reggie Watts, confessing that weed-induced paranoia keeps him from smoking pot. And late in the evening, he delivered new material about make-out burps, temptress nannies and Linux-based operating systems at the stand-up comedy workshop he hosts in the back of a Hollywood comics store.Ive just channeled all that energy that went into drinking into time-management skills, said Mr. Hardwick, 44, of his packed-to-the-gills schedule (hes been sober for nearly 13 years).After riding high in the 1990s as a co-host of MTVs dating show, Singled Out, only to see his career sputter for the next decade, he decided to embrace his obsessions with zombies, superheroes, video games and tech. And with his instinctive understanding of connecting with fans over social media, hes transformed those once-niche interests into an ever-growing kingdom.
Chris Hardwick during an animation meeting in Los Angeles.
In the process, hes become the model of an entertainment brand for a multiscreen generation, seeding every sort of outlet and venue (no matter how small) with a constant barrage of fanboy content. Besides the millions who watch him each week on Talking Dead after every episode of The Walking Dead (and starting on Sunday, April 10, Fear the Walking Dead), 5.5 million people download his Nerdist podcast each month, while the Nerdist website draws close to 10 million visitors. He has 2.8 million followers on Twitter and another million on Instagram. Then theres his embrace of Snapchat, Periscope, Facebook Live and Twitch. As nerd culture has become more mainstream, he is its attractive, welcoming emissary.And later this year, he will try to cross over to network television when he hosts an NBC trivia game show called The Wall.
Chris has been able to build a brand because he is genuine, and authentic, said Thomas Tull, the chief executive of Legendary Entertainment, the company behind Jurassic World and the Christopher Nolan Batman trilogy. (It bought Nerdist Industries in 2012 and in turn was purchased in January by a Chinese conglomerate for $3.5 billion.) In a world with plenty of white noise, he cuts through because he loves what he does, and the fans sense that.Of course, the building of a media empire comes with its share of possible pitfalls. If Mr. Hardwick gets stretched so thin he cant keep up with the latest twists in the Marvel Universe or the time-jumps of Doctor Who, his bond with the audience could fray. After all, his fans know a real nerd when they see one. Heres what it was like to follow him around for a week.
Comedian and media personality Chris Hardwick has made a living as a professional nerd. Since the 1990s, he has mixed old and new media to spread his Nerdist brand.
The Nerd: A Doctor Who Wedding CakeOn March 14  3/14, for the numerically inclined  geeks around the world celebrated Pi Day. To commemorate the occasion, the @Midnight writers teed up a groan-inducing joke for Mr. Hardwick to begin the show.Nothing makes me hotter than dividing the circumference of a circle by its diameter, Mr. Hardwick said. Its the only thing that can bring me to cli-math. (Puns, preferably drenched in sexual innuendo, are a favorite of Mr. Hardwicks.) That, and reciting pi to the one-hundredth decimal.During rehearsal that afternoon, Mr. Hardwick suddenly splayed his fingers over his closed eyes and reeled off, rapid fire, pi to more than 100 places.The shows writers and producers, jaded sorts, began to clap. A wow was even heard.Youve always said you were a nerd, but I didnt believe it till now, said Josh McDermitt, who plays the mullet-sporting Eugene on The Walking Dead, when the host repeated the trick on the show.
Chris Hardwick during a live recording of his @Midnight game show on Comedy Central.
Mr. Hardwick was one of those chess club kids who actually got stuffed in a garbage can. Nine pounds of Dungeons & Dragons dice live in a vase in his @Midnight dressing room. And his love of the British science-fiction show Doctor Who is so intense that half of the cake at his August wedding (to the actress and publishing heiress Lydia Hearst) will be a re-creation of the Tardis, the time machine masquerading as a police call box.But for the first chunk of Mr. Hardwicks career, such animating interests had little connection to the jobs he filled. His first break came in 1995, when he, along with Jenny McCarthy, was chosen to host Singled Out.
The show lasted three years, and Mr. Hardwicks image in Hollywood seemed cemented: the snarky comedian trafficking in generic pop-culture jokes. He filmed a string of unsuccessful pilots, often as the host of a dating show. There were auditions for lots of Jack Black-type roles on sitcoms, at least until he quit drinking and got in shape. (In his self-help book, The Nerdist Way, Mr. Hardwick jokes that through his dissolute 20s I was consuming a baby elephants weight in alcohol every day.) And the smattering of TV and movie appearances (like Zoey 101, House of a Thousand Corpses) did little to provide professional fulfillment.It all came to a head in 2007. He couldnt get work, his stand-up career was going nowhere, and he owned a house he could barely afford. Early one morning, I just had this moment of clarity: I need to just do the things I love, he said. At least Ill be happy.
Get recommendations on the best TV shows and films to stream and watch, delivered to your inbox.
Embracing his inner nerd, Mr. Hardwick immediately got himself a job hosting Wired Science on PBS. Next came a gadget reviewer gig on G4s Attack of the Show, which led to Web Soup. His zombie expertise, and a connection with a top AMC executive from his MTV days, helped him land Talking Dead in 2011, and @Midnight followed in 2013. All the while, the Nerdist blog he began in 2008 grew into a full-fledged digital media company, with a news website, nearly 50 podcasts, a YouTube channel and even an improv and sketch comedy academy.That Mr. Hardwick now has a career that allows him to hang out with the likes of Weird Al Yankovic never ceases to amaze him: So much of my life are moments my 12-year-old self wouldnt be able to fully process. Continue reading the main story
The Host: Just a Guy Named ChrisHows everyone feeling? Mr. Hardwick asked as he convened what he calls his weekly ritualistic therapy session.The studio audience for Talking Dead on March 13 had just watched a particularly gruesome episode of The Walking Dead. Dozens of people died, many of them burned alive on the killing floor of a slaughterhouse. But Mr. Hardwick found a bright side: No one from the core cast numbered among the casualties.
On display was what makes Mr. Hardwick an in-demand host (and moderator for Comic-Con panels): his natural rapport with his guests. Stand-up comedians dont always make the best television hosts. Theyre typically both the author and executor of their material, not collaborators, and their interviewing skills often leave much to be desired.Mr. Hardwick is a good listener, and his deep familiarity with his guests work allows him to be quick on his feet. He is very adept at making his guests funnier, said Kent Alterman, whos the president of original programming at Comedy Central. He also likes to hang out with them after the show. After tapings of Talking Dead, he revels in taking his guests down into the bowels of CBS Television City so they can (surreptitiously) spin the wheel from The Price Is Right.
Mr. Hardwick, who was glued to game shows in his youth like Match Game and Jokers Wild, will get to host his first non-comic one when NBC airs the LeBron James-produced The Wall. Two-person teams  chosen for their inspiring back stories  will answer trivia questions as a ball is dropped down a giant wall lined with slots marked with monetary values.But todays host  or any rising entertainment personality, really  cant just call it a day when the TV taping is done.
Chris Hardwick, in cap, in a meeting at Hollywood Center Studios.
So Mr. Hardwick quickly changed out of his Theory suit, plopped down on the couch with his laptop and opened his iPhone to a Facebook video app. It was time for a Facebook Live chat with Talking Dead fans.Facebook, which recently ramped up the ability to post live video, has been urging celebrities to try it out to connect with fans. Mr. Hardwick accepted the challenge, and for 35 minutes, he gamely responded to the comments and questions flowing in. He theorized on whether zombies can starve to death. He insisted he didnt know who might die in The Walking Dead season finale. (He watches each weeks episode only the weekend it appears.) He offered job and relationship advice. And he named his weapon of choice for a zombie apocalypse: a rubber chicken with acid in its beak.This is basically Talking Talking Dead, Mr. Hardwick said.Though he mentioned hed be doing the session at the end of Talking Dead, all told it drew more than 110,000 viewers and 23,000 comments.The imperatives of being an entertainment personality now require more than unmediated conversations with the audience. There has to be new content, tailored to the different social-media platforms.
At the SXSW festival last month in Austin, Tex., Mr. Hardwick filmed an episode of @Midnight that appeared only on Periscope, Twitters live streaming video project. Theres also a weekly @Midnight show for Snapchat called Stupid Points.We had it so easy for so long because we only ever had to focus on one platform, Mr. Hardwick said. But particularly in television, youve got to chase the audience a bit.
The Comedian: Feeling FuncomfortableIn the back of Meltdown Comics, on a forlorn stretch of Sunset Boulevard in Hollywood, Mr. Hardwick popped onto the stage of the Nerdist Showroom just past 9 p.m. on Tuesday night. Beta Test, a regular comedy workshop he runs for himself and his comedian pals, was now in session.Mr. Hardwick loves mixing it up with the audience at his comedy gigs. Greeting the folks individually in the first row, he riffed rapid-fire about their occupations. To the woman who said she was on sabbatical: Thats a very romantic term for unemployed. It makes it sound like it was your choice.
Chris Hardwick, right, doing his Nerdist podcast with the comedian and musician Reggie Watts.
But Mr. Hardwicks barbs are directed more at himself than at the audience. Its all up for discussion  his anxiety, his love life  as his comedy has become much more personal in recent years. The Funcomfortable Tour, which culminated in January with two shows at the Palace of Fine Arts Theater in San Francisco (filmed for a Comedy Central special on April 30), dealt with his most cringe-inducing moments.Some of the things that I actually admit on stage are kind of odd when I think about it, Mr. Hardwick said.Like losing his virginity to a blowup doll in high school.Steve Martin and Joan Rivers were among Mr. Hardwicks comedy gods growing up. Raising him in Memphis, his parents  his father a professional bowler and his mother a real estate agent  placed no restrictions on what he could watch or listen to, even buying him Mr. Martins albums. When his father took him along to tournaments in Las Vegas, he remembers seeing Ms. Rivers in concert. He wasnt yet 10.Mr. Hardwicks comedy, though, is more nakedly autobiographical than theirs  the death of his father in 2013 runs like a backbone through the Funcomfortable special. He comes across to his fans as one of them, even if he is marrying Ms. Hearst and just moved into an $11 million home with breathtaking views of the city. (Mr. Hardwicks design sense  he calls it Victorian gentleman serial killer  meshes with Ms. Hearsts; she owns a creepy wheelchair straight out of The Changeling.)
The interior of Chris Hardwicks office at Hollywood Center Studios.
Mr. Hardwicks stand-up career has him jetting around the country nearly every weekend for a gig. And those 50 dates dont include his drop-in sets at clubs in Los Angeles. If you sat next to Chris on an airplane and asked him what he did for a living, he would say he was a stand-up comedian, said his manager, Alex Murray, of Brillstein Entertainment Partners.Mr. Hardwicks commitments add up to one seriously crazed schedule. One that could damage, or derail, a painstakingly built career built on authenticity. If he doesnt know as much as his fans (or more) about the their favorite TV shows, movies, comics and other hallmarks of geek culture, he could be pegged as a poser  or a fake nerd as some of his online critics put it  who isnt worthy of their attention.
Mr. Hardwick is aware of the problem. Hes cut back on the number of Nerdist podcasts he records each week, from three to one. He doesnt play the time-sucking video games he dearly loves much anymore. And he insists he turns down plenty of projects.Im not so psychotic that I dont know how to say no to things, he said.The Entrepreneur: Nerd MentalityEarlier on Tuesday, Mr. Hardwick arrived just before 6 p.m. at the offices of Funny or Die, the humor website and production company that boasts Will Ferrell and the director Adam McKay among its co-founders. It was the second official gathering of Spitball, a previously unannounced venture that aims to offer fledgling companies media consulting and comedic video-production services.
Chris Hardwick doing stand-up at Meltdown Comics in Los Angeles.
It was not your typical business meeting. Yes, there may have been cash-flow projections displayed on a screen, and buzzwords like public facing bandied about. But there were also tasteless jokes about colonoscopies.Diversifying outside the entertainment world is the motivation for Mr. Hardwick and his partners, which include Funny or Die. The pitch: The people behind Spitball understand both comedy and social media and how to combine the two to build a brand. The advantage we have is we know how to talk to people, Mr. Hardwick said.Spitball is but one part of Mr. Hardwicks plan to build his off-camera career.His latest contract with Comedy Central calls for him to be a digital guru of sorts for the network. Its great for us to tap into his brain, said the networks Mr. Alterman.And hes getting into TV production himself, through Nerdist Industries. Syfy nixed Nerdist News, but a pilot at Comedy Central with the magician Justin Willman remains in the running. (An animation company he co-owns has a pilot, Danger & Eggs, on Amazon.)
Chris Hardwick at the offices of Funny or Die, a humor website and production company.
Most ambitious among the companys expansion plans is a streaming video network that would seek to bind its audience closer together, and in the process, to Nerdist. As connective as the Internet is, Mr. Hardwick said, its actually remarkably isolating. Because you interact with it alone.The Internet can be a harsh place, full of nasty personal attacks. Mr. Hardwick, a digital evangelist if there ever was one, gets particularly exercised about such viciousness. Discussing his philosophy for the podcast, he said he always wants people to leave feeling a little bit better than when they got there. And that optimistic maxim serves as a guiding principle.
His celebratory tendencies get him bashed regularly on social media as a cheerleader  dont turn to Mr. Hardwick if youre looking for a brutal takedown of Batman v Superman  but he wears those criticisms proudly.I feel theres enough negativity, theres enough cynicism, theres enough walled garden and exclusionary behavior, he said. You can get that so many places.Theres none of that snobbishness in Mr. Hardwicks empire.The soul of it, if I were really breaking it down psychologically, is pretty simple: I always felt excluded when I was in grade school, and I wanted to create something where no one would ever have to feel that way.
A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page AR1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Nerds Empire Expands.
These Two Guys Are Changing How We Think About Fashion
For Staff on Naked and Afraid, Work Is Just a Blur
Merle Haggard and Okie From Muskogee, the Hit That Helped and Hurt Him
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
