Savannah Dietrich outs her rapists on Twitter and Facebook
Can Twitter and Facebook Help Rape Victims Find Justice?
Can Twitter and Facebook Help Rape Victims Find Justice?
SlateThe XX FactorWhat Women Really ThinkJuly 23 2012 9:32 AM
A teenage sexual assault victim took to Twitter to out her assailants and now faces jail time.
Last summer, 16-year-old Savannah Dietrich went to a party, had some drinks, and passed out. Then, two acquaintances sexually assaulted her, took pictures, and forwarded them to their friends. News of the public assault tore through Dietrichs Louisville high school. Dietrich was forced to just sit there and wonder, who saw, who knows? The public humiliation culminated this June, when her assailants struck a plea deal on charges of felony sexual abuse and misdemeanor voyeurism that Dietrich felt amounted to a slap on the wrist. And the court had an order for Dietrich, too: Dont talk about it, or risk 180 days in prison and a $500 fine.
First, Dietrich cried. Then, she logged online. "There you go, lock me up," she tweeted to a couple hundred Twitter followers, outing her assailants by name. "I'm not protecting anyone that made my life a living Hell. These men had made their assault on her public. Now, they had convinced a court to keep it all under wraps. If reporting a rape only got me to the point that I'm not allowed to talk about it, then I regret it, she wrote in a note on her Facebook wall. I regret reporting it.
Public officials and victims advocates have long grappled with the question of why more than one-half of rape victimsdo not report the crime to police. Rape trials can be long, grueling, humiliating, stigmatizing, alienating, and ultimately difficult to prove. But as Dietrich's case shows, the criminal justice process can also rob the victim of control over her own narrative. Reporting to official channels often means keeping quiet in social ones. Even when the story hits the pressas is the case of the local Louisville report on Dietrich, now 17the accused rapists names often remain unpublished.
Now, young victims like Dietrich are "reporting" the assault directly to the people who need the information mostother women living in these rapists' communities. And theyre risking their own names and reputations in order to bring their assailants out into the open. In 2010, 19-year-old American University student Chloe Rubenstein took to Facebook and Twitter to out two men on campus she said had victimized several of her friends (ATTENTION WOMEN, she wrote. They are predators and will show no remorse for anyone.) In 2007, a group of women at Portlands Lewis & Clark College, led by sophomore Helen Hunter, created a Facebook group calling one of their classmates a Piece of S--- Rapist. When the administration caught wind, it suspended the man for just a semester. But five years later? Google his name, and the online rape allegations still register as the fourth hit.
The tactic has its risks. Women who report rapes through unofficial channels can be shamed for making public claims that have not been proven in a court of lawor else for ruining the reputations of boys who have made "mistakes." Dietrich faces jail time. Rubenstein fielded late-night threatening phone calls from her rapists friends. Victims with even less social cloutDietrich is white and middle-class, and is speaking out with the help of her family and legal counselcan expect even less support. But the costs of staying silent are high. In her Facebook note, Dietrich said that her attackers gave people the impression that its okay to do that to me  making me look like a whore and increasing my chances of getting raped again. We know thatthe majority of acquaintance rapistsarerepeat offenders. When campus and criminal processes fail to catch these predators, social media can provide a powerful patch.
Last night, Dietrich unlocked her Facebook page to the hundreds of strangersmyself includedwho have requested to make her a friend. They have flooded her wall with offers of financial support and links to Change.org petitions calling for justice in her case. Of course, Dietrich is also fielding spammy notes from strangers with dogs for avatars (since they took pictures isnt this child pornography?) and all-caps rants about the sex offender registry.
But here, Dietrich is the editor of her own story. She has the power to delete the comments she doesnt like and promote the ones she does. Thanks to a few brave tweets, a 17-year-old rape victim is now curating an international conversation about sexual assault in America. Shes created a public Twitter account to represent her new online role. And shes speaking out not only about the details of her own assault, but the ways that the justice system is failing others like her. All I am hoping for out of this is to get not only justice for myself but to future victims, she wrote in response to one commenter offering of financial support. The laws that protect criminals shouldnt cross over and take away victims rights. Victims rights should come first. And thank you.
1. Did Laura Bush Endorse Hillary Clinton? Not Exactly, but It Wouldnt Be Surprising.
2. An Antiquated Business Model. A Horde of Upstart Competitors. Does NPR Have a Future?
4. Rachel Maddow on Why She Always Thought Bernie Sanders Had a Chance
5. The Bernie Bro-iest Moment of All Time Happened at a New York City Church Over the Weekend
1. Boston Globe Publishes Fake Front Page Imagining a Trump Presidency
2. Kate McKinnon Provides the Only People v. O.J. Simpson Recap Youll Ever Need
3. An Antiquated Business Model. A Horde of Upstart Competitors. Does NPR Have a Future?
4. The Bernie Bro-iest Moment of All Time Happened at a New York City Church Over the Weekend
Slate is published by The Slate Group, a Graham Holdings Company. All contents 
