Navys New Standard: White Caps for Women - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Female Navy recruits in Great Lakes, Ill. They were among the first women to be issued the white hats for enlistees, or Dixie cups, as part of the Navys efforts for uniformity in service members uniforms.
For the first time, the Navy distributed the iconic white hats known as Dixie cups to female recruits at its training command in Great Lakes, Ill., this week, part of an effort to make its uniforms more gender-neutral.The caps, or covers in Navy parlance, will become a standard part of the womens uniform on Oct. 31. Female sailors from the rank of petty officer first class on down will be required to don the Dixies with their service dress whites.The Dixie cups, which in the past have been fondly nicknamed dog dishes and squid lids, are just the first of several coming changes to the uniforms of female sailors, including the addition of zippers to their service dress blues.
Lt. Cmdr. Nate Christensen, a spokesman for the chief of naval personnel, said on Wednesday that the changes, which were announced last fall, send a signal that the Navy is one team, has one standard and is one in dress.When individuals look at a group of sailors, they should see a group of sailors, indistinguishable by uniform, he said.
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox. MondayFriday.
The uniforms have proved easier to change than some other Naval traditions. (As it turns out, there is no simple way to make a title like yeoman more androgynous.)The white caps were first added to the uniform regulations in 1886, according to
the Navys website. Through folding, crimping, crushing and bending, they became a tool through which sailors expressed their personalities.With its many shapes and uses, it may be the most versatile article of clothing a Navy enlisted man wears, said a 1988 article in the services magazine, All Hands.Starting in 2011, the Navy surveyed about 400 of its female sailors and found that there were significant concerns about uniform quality and design. A 2012 memo revealed that enlisted women in some regions would give the Dixie cups a trial run over the summer.A survey released in January 2014 included recommendations for changes to the womens uniforms, though the majority of concerns focused on comfort. A wish for jauntier headwear was not mentioned.The recruits expressed enthusiasm for the new headgear at the training command in Great Lakes, news reports said. But there was a time when the Dixie cup represented a far more old-fashioned set of gender roles, according to a petty officer quoted in the All Hands article.When the ship left the pier, we used to roll our hats and throw them to our girlfriends or wives, the petty officer, an avionics technician, said. It was our way of leaving a part of ourselves behind. Continue reading the main story
All Combat Roles Now Open to Women, Defense Secretary Says
All Combat Roles Now Open to Women, Defense Secretary Says
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
