Dear Enemy: Exchanging Photos and Gunfire - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
The South Korean director Park Chan-Wook is enjoying a somewhat belated moment of American recognition. "Oldboy," his grisly, extravagantly stylish revenge thriller, a prize-winner at Cannes last year, thrilled aficionados of Asian genre filmmaking when it opened here in March. A newer film, "Three Extremes," will be screened in Manhattan on June 24 as part of the New York Asian Film Festival. Meanwhile, an earlier one, "Joint Security Area," which won a handful of Grand Bell awards (South Korea's equivalent of the Oscar) in 2001, opens in Manhattan today."Joint Security Area" is neither as convoluted nor as violent as "Oldboy," though plenty of blood is shed. Set in a particularly tense area of the demilitarized zone between the Koreas, it is a fairly straightforward whodunit with a pointedly political theme and an unapologetically humanist message. Major Jean (Lee Yeong-ae), who grew up in Switzerland, comes to South Korea, her father's homeland, to investigate an incident that took place inside the Joint Security Area, administered by Swedish and Swiss peacekeepers.Collecting depositions from both sides, she encounters two predictably opposed accounts of the shooting, which left two North Korean soldiers dead. Lee Soo-hyeok (Lee Byeong-heon), the South Korean officer who has admitted to the shooting, says he shot his way out of an attempted kidnapping. The Northerners insist it was an unprovoked attack. With the specter of nuclear hostilities hovering, Major Jean's investigation is a lot more than routine police work.And "Joint Security" itself departs from routine as the real story behind the skirmish emerges in a series of long, cleanly filmed flashbacks. Inside this thriller about geopolitical hostility is a story of friendship. Soo-hyeok, whose cockiness masks a certain immaturity, was saved from a landmine by a gruff North Korean officer (the marvelous Song Kang-ho) and his nervous sidekick (Shin Ha-kyun). After that, Soo-hyeok, along with his reluctant pal Private Nam (Kim Tae-woo), began sneaking over the ceasefire line to hang out with his enemies, play jacks, smoke cigarettes and admire pictures of one another's wives and girlfriends.That their camaraderie comes to a bad end is ordained, both by the film's structure and by its intractable real-world context, and in narrative terms, Major Jean's discovery of the truth may feel anticlimactically simple. But that could also be the point of this warm, sorrowful film, which plays like a downbeat variation on an old World War II picture from Hollywood. The logic of political conflict works itself out in stark, brutal ways that ordinary people, however brave or decent they might be, are often powerless to oppose.
Opens today in Manhattan.Directed by Park Chan-Wook; written (in Korean, with English subtitles) by Kim Hyeon-seok, Lee Mu-yeong, Jeong Seong-san and Mr. Park, based on the novel "DMZ" by Park Sang-yeon; director of photography, Kim Seong-bok; edited by Kim Sang-beom; music by Jo Yeong-wook and Bang Jun-seok; produced by Lee Eun and Shim Jae-Myung; released by Palm Pictures. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater, 155 East Third Street, at Avenue A, East Village. Running time: 110 minutes. This film is not rated.WITH: Lee Yeong-ae (Major SophieJean), Lee Byeong-heon (Sgt. Lee Soo-hyeok), Song Kang-ho (Sgt. Oh Kyeong-pil), Kim Tae-woo (Nam Sung-shik), Kim Tae-woo (Pvt. Nam) and Shin Ha-kyun (Jeong Woo-jin). Continue reading the main story
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
