A PLAYWRIGHT WHO TAKES COMEDY VERY, VERY SERIOUSLY - NYTimes.com
campaign: inyt2015_bar1_digi_usd_4L9UF -- 277474, creative: inyt2015_bar1_digi_buttononly_usd_4L9UF -- 406560, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/theater, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/theater, position: Bar1
''Comedy,'' says Andrew Bergman, ''is a very delicate thing. There's nothing harder. It requires an enormous commitment from the audience.
They must absolutely believe in the reality of the situation - and then you have to take them past it. But if they don't believe the characters, if they say, 'That's not real,' no matter what you do after that, they won't laugh. George Burns once said to me, 'You know, I never used comedians when I did my series. They're not funny. I only used actors. They could be funny. People wouldn't believe comedians could be real people.'
''Laughter is such an impulsive, emotional thing. It is such a commitment, it is such a vote of yes if it's real. Comedy isn't considered high art, but the joke is that to me it's the highest art of all, the most enduring. Laughter is never dated. If it's funny, it's as fresh as life, it is so life-enhancing - that's why people will be watching someone like Chaplin 500 years from now.''
A discussion of comedy can be as delicate as the subject itself, but Mr. Bergman has the credentials for it. As a screenwriter, his credits include three comedy hits: ''Blazing Saddles,'' ''The In-Laws'' and ''Fletch.'' As a novelist, he has written two clever and funny sendups of the 40's detective genre -''The Big Kiss-Off of 1944'' and ''Hollywood and LeVine'' - that are considered cult classics. And now, as a playwright, his first play, a comedy called ''Social Security,'' is opening Thursday on Broadway at the Barrymore Theater starring Marlo Thomas and Ron Silver with Mike Nichols directing.
''It's easy to get a commitment,'' Mr. Bergman continues, ''if somebody comes out and examines their arm and says, 'My God, what's this lump? I didn't notice this before.' Then you're turning on a lot of buttons immediately, in a very easy way. In a comedy you really have to work so hard to get the audience's trust - but once you get it, it's very rewarding.''
''Everything I've ever written always sits for a little bit,'' he says, stretching his tall, lean frame across a sofa on the upper level of his duplex office above Carnegie Hall. ''It's like for five minutes, you wonder if this is going to be a comedy. In 'The In-Laws' there wasn't a laugh for maybe 10 minutes, because the audience had to listen - and I'm always willing to take that risk, that people have to get to know the characters, have to feel comfortable with them, and then they'll laugh at things you can't imagine they would possibly laugh at.
''But if you go for the jugular early on, all they're doing is laughing, and then they get very tired of it after a while. That's why most comedies seemingly start to run out of steam in the second act - they haven't run out of steam, the audiences have run out of steam. The jokes may be as good in the second act as they were in the first, but the audiences have run out of steam because they haven't made commitments to the characters, they've just made commitments to the jokes, and you can't commit yourself to jokes for more than about an hour.''
''Social Security'' involves a married couple of upwardly mobile East Side art dealers (Miss Thomas and Mr. Silver); their visiting relatives from Long Island (Joanna Gleason and Kenneth Welsh); Miss Thomas and Miss Gleason's elderly mother (Olympia Dukakis), who until then has been living with her Long Island daughter, and a 98-year-old Jewish artist (Stefan Schnabel) who lives in France, more than resembles Marc Chagall and comes to dinner. Complications ensue.
''I wrote the first act more than five years ago,'' Mr. Bergman says, ''and I thought it was good but I wasn't quite sure of how I would start a second act so I just put it aside and sort of forgot about it for a couple of years. Then I took it off the shelf and reread it, which is always the critical test, and I said this is not something I should discard, so I just went full throttle to finish it.
''I wanted to do a play - I live in New York, and I wanted to do something which was more personal in subject matter than what I've done in the movies, which would really be my voice purely, the way a novel is. Movies get filtered through other sensibilities. You can work on a smaller canvas in the theater. In fact, at one point a movie executive read it and said, 'Why don't you just do this as a movie?' I said I didn't want to - I didn't want to have to open it up and put some action in it where I don't want to. I wanted this play to go along for two hours in their apartment with people talking to each other, and I could write this page-long speech that I know isn't going to end up in the editing room.''
So, he says, he gave the script to David Geffen, the producer, ''and his first response was that 'we have to do this, and we have to get Mike Nichols - Mike is the guy to do it.' Mike hadn't done any Broadway comedy for a while and was very much taken with the idea of doing it - I mean, there's nobody better.
''We had a reading before he committed to it and at the reading were the four people who turned out to be our principals - Ron and Marlo and Joanna and Kenny - plus two other people reading the mother and the Chagall character who were not thought of as the people to do it. In fact, Elaine May read the mother as a favor to both Mike and me, and on the basis of the reading the chemistry between the four principals was palpable. It seemed to us that Ron and Marlo were entirely credible as a couple. You really believed they had a history, that they would be married - and it was the same for Kenny and Joanna.''
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/theater, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/theater, position: Inv1
