Guardian readers on privacy: 'we trust government over corporations' | Technology | The Guardian
Guardian readers on privacy: 'we trust government over corporations'
Government cant be trusted to store data safely, our readers say, but the publics sense of what is private is shifting
Anonymising data is no protection at all because those with multiple data sets can easily cross reference them and undo the anonymisation, says one reader.
Photograph: Colin Anderson/Getty Images/Blend Images
There have been few public disclosures to put privacy and surveillance on the agenda as much as Edward Snowden in June 2013. Yet outside the technology industry and surveillance community itself, how much impact did the story make, and what have been the wider implications for citizens and their attitudes to online privacy?
We asked Guardian readers whether they felt happy to trade off online privacy for online security. And what about private companies; is it a fair exchange if they use our personal data to allow them to make better products and services?
The responses suggest there is a great deal of distrust towards governmental data collection, but there is an even greater sense of wariness towards commercial use of personal data by private companies.
Interestingly, this wariness was often coupled with admissions of inaction in the responses we received  several readers indicated they still use internet services regardless of feeling uncomfortable with the amount of data being collected about them. The responses also show that, in a more general sense, the division between what is public and what is private is a hard one to trace when it comes to online communication.
To what extent are you happy for the government to monitor your data if it means greater protection from serious crime?
When asked how happy they were for the government to monitor personal data, the majority of our readers showed unease towards blanket data collection.
Ansgar Koene, a research scientist at University of Nottingham, called for digital monitoring to happen on a case-by-case basis.
Digital communications should be treated the same as telephone communications, requiring individual court orders before any government monitoring can take place, said Koene. All such monitoring must be judicially approved on a case-by-case basis, no blanked mass data collections. Serious crime will use encryption and other means to avoid government monitoring anyway.
I'm worried the government can't safeguard the privacy of the surveillance data it collects
While the general reaction towards blanket data collection was negative, a number of responses were more sympathetic to the intention behind it. One anonymous commenter suggested that they werent necessarily against the monitoring of personal data for protection against serious crime, but that they didnt trust the government to safeguard collected information from misuse and re-sale.
If the government monitoring data genuinely protects my family from serious crime, without the revolting re-sale of information that is constantly linked with such measures, and it is anonymous and done safely and securely then maybe it is a good thing, said the user. So far, the government have not demonstrated that they can do this, or even have any sensible ideas about how to do this, and I am worried that they will not safeguard privacy now or in the future because they have not demonstrated that they understand the responsibility around such a task.
To what degree do you trust private companies to keep your data secure?
Our readers confidence in private companies with their personal data was underwhelming. When asked about whether or not they trusted privacy companies, contributors pointed to issues of security and opportunistic commercialisation of information. One anonymous user said that the free services offered by technology companies are often paid for in personal data.
I distrust private companies more than I distrust the government, said the user. Too many Silicon Valley corporations have business models based on providing free services in return for user data. They analyse, share, and sell this data with whoever they want.
Security risks were highlighted as a problem in several responses, but a more recurrent concern was private companies selling personal information to third parties. Steve Dale, a freelance consultant, emphasised the commercial gain to be had selling data to insurance companies.
Time and again we have seen security breaches where private data has been accessed by someone without the relevant security clearance, said Dale. But the more insidious problem is where companies see an opportunity for commercial gain by selling the data to third parties. For example, insurance companies and claims agents.
I have no idea how secure these sites are and only hope that my details are safe
A number of responses admitted that they still use internet services they were distrustful of.
I have no trust at all but I wilfully ignore the threat, commented Montebello. My personal and financial details are stored by any number of organisations. I have no idea how secure these sites are and only hope that my details are safe.
Several of our readers stressed that although they arent comfortable with the way companies are handling their data, they keep using these services because it is convenient for them to do so.
I mistrust companies to keep my data secure. At the same time, I find myself giving out personal data to companies because of lack of time and money to deal with the complications that would be added to my life were I to dispense with their services, said Carissa Vliz, a doctoral candidate working on privacy.
Where do you draw the line between what is and isnt private?
There was no consensus among our readers when it came to the line between public and private. For many, emails and phone conversations are private, while anything posted on social networks is public. Other contributors said that anything put on the internet is public, while some claimed all information online should be considered private unless the user decides to make it public.
I start from the basis that anything I post is public, said Matthew MacLachlan, an intercultural trainer. Anything I upload may be shared. If I am paying for privacy I expect that to be maintained (eg: cloud storage). It is my personal responsibility to decide on a case by case basis what is private (keep it offline) and what is not.
One anonymous user pointed to the amount of personal information that can be gleaned about a user from a simple online interaction, such as filling out a Guardian survey.
In filling in this form it is possible for you to obtain my device model, operating system, IP address, mac address, email address and much more, commented the user. The government can then get it from you without you or me even knowing and sell or give it away.
One of the most interesting ideas to emerge from the callout was that privacy largely depends on its context, and that these contexts change:
One of the core problems in regarding privacy online is the continuous, updating nature of the data that is being gathered, said Ansgar Koene. As a result, much information that may initially not seem to be of a private nature can, when shifted into a different context by combining it with other information, become very private at a later time.
This idea chimed with an example given by another anonymous user, who pointed to Hollands occupation by German forces during the second world war:
All governments will abuse the powers given to them, if there isnt a continuous and independent system of checks and balances in place. Plus, there are always unintended consequences. In Holland we have always had a very active census. So when the Germans invaded Holland in WW2 they immediately got their hands on the addresses of each member of our Jewish population.
We need decentralised storage, access limited by time on a case by case basis, and no right to store longer than needed
Taken together, these points suggest that regardless of government and corporate intent, mass collection and storage of personal information leaves citizens data open to future misuse. One user, going by the name of Rupert, put forward a potential solution  decentralisation  noting the fallibility of anonymising data as a means to protect privacy.
Anonymising data is no protection at all, though government pretends it is. It is useless because those with multiple data sets can easily cross reference them and undo the anonymisation, he said. Theres only one way to protect us and to protect our data: decentralised storage and access control, with time limited, case by case access to just the information needed at any time, and no right to copy and store it longer than needed for the permitted.
Overall, the responses paint a complex picture of attitudes to online privacy. The concept itself is hard to pin down, with the majority of responses demonstrating a desire for one-to-one communication to be private, but offset by an awareness of the necessity of governmental monitoring. The handling of personal information by private companies is what our readers found most problematic, with nearly every contributor openly distrustful of internet companies, yet with many contributors admitting they use those services regardless of these worries.
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
