campaign: nyt2016_bar1_digihd_BAU_mtr_msg_64RWJ -- 283467, creative: bar1_digihd_BAU_mtr_64RWJ_64RWL_64RXF_64RXJ -- 413062, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1
Want both newspaper deliveryand free, unlimited digital access?50% OFF FOR 12 WEEKS
Want unlimited access to NYTimes.com and our apps?99 FOR 4 WEEKSSee All SubscriptionsSubscribe
HOMELAND SECURITY; Thinking Terror, Thinking Schools
THERE'S no question that New Jersey has no lack of potential terrorism targets: Newark Liberty International Airport, the Lincoln Tunnel, even Giants Stadium. But a middle school in Hunterdon County? Or an elementary school in Bergenfield?
When it comes to terrorism, though, Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey's attention these days is focused on the state's 2,400 public schools (and its private schools, too). In his State of the State address earlier this month, he said, ''I will leave no stone unturned in my effort to keep our children safe from the horrors of terrorism.''
By elevating schools over more traditional targets, like chemical plants and ports, Mr. Codey surprised many observers. That included, perhaps, the already overextended state police, who will be coordinating much of Mr. Codey's planned effort, even though there are fewer troopers now than 10 years ago: 2,694 in 1995 to 2,609 today.
And Mr. Codey's announcement has raised the question of whether he picked a hot-button issue to raise public recognition as he ponders a race for governor. ''Making schoolchildren safe: how could you argue against that?'' said David Rebovich, managing director of Rider University's Institute for New Jersey Politics.
For their part, New Jersey school officials seem pleased by Mr. Codey's initiative, though they say they have already been taking steps to make schools safer, especially since the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
Mr. Codey's initiative would create a comprehensive security check list for New Jersey schools; inspect schools by the fall for vulnerability; bring in federal homeland security officials to train school personnel; and enlist the state police and local law enforcement officials to monitor school construction sites. The New Jersey School Construction Corporation lists 2,708 construction or renovation projects in 1,784 schools. Mr. Codey also called for a school security summit at Rutgers University in the spring.
Roy Licklider, a political science professor at Rutgers who has been teaching a course on the history of terrorism and antiterrorist strategies for 35 years, said it was not clear to him why the governor singled out schools. ''Schools are clearly one possible target for terrorist attack,'' he said. ''I don't know if they are the most likely target.'' He added, ''You can make the case for shopping centers, which are really vulnerable, or power plants.''
Dr. Rebovich thought Mr. Codey might have overdramatized the threat.
''Yes, it's extremely important, but what does it mean -- putting a mechanized infantry platoon around each school?'' Mr. Rebovich said. ''I know he didn't mean to convey that, but there could have been a less dramatic way of stating the obvious: that we should try to secure our schools.''
Republicans accused Mr. Codey of trying to deflect attention from key issues like rising property taxes and a $4 billion budget deficit. Steve Lonegan, the mayor of Bogota and a Republican candidate for governor, calls Mr. Codey's approach ''a political ploy,'' and ''a disgraceful use of fear tactics.''
''To single out schools, is in essence to make them a target,'' Mr. Lonegan said. ''What about shopping centers? What about sporting events? What about synagogues on Saturday, churches on Sunday? There is no reason to believe that schools are subject to terrorist attacks more than these other places. And our local police can do the job.''
Eric Shuffler, Mr. Codey's policy adviser, defended the governor last week by saying, ''When he spoke to counterterrorism experts, there was a consensus that there was a lot more that needed doing in the schools.''
And, Mr. Shuffler said, ''as a parent,'' Mr. Codey was ''horrified'' by the murder by terrorists of 330 people, in a school in Beslan, Russia, last summer, 172 of them children.
Also causing jitters was a computer disk found in Iraq last July that showed diagrams and photographs of schools in six states, including two in New Jersey, even though federal officials concluded that it was not linked to terrorists.
In any case, the day after his State of the State address, Mr. Codey talked up his plan in Bergen County. At a news conference where Paramus and state officials announced a pilot program to install modern surveillance cameras in several Paramus schools, Mr. Codey said, ''I'd rather be safe than sorry.''
Janice Dime, the Paramus school superintendent, spoke for many school officials when she stepped to the microphone and said, ''I wanted to personally thank Governor Codey for placing such a high priority on protecting our children and staff.''
Frank Belluscio, a spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association, sees it as ''more of an effort to insure that what is in place now is effective.''
Since before the shootings at Columbine in 1999, the state has required schools to have contingency plans to deal with emergencies, and 9/11 only added impetus, but Mr. Belluscio added, ''In terms of what the governor is proposing, first of all, it's a level of coordination that doesn't exist now, a level of review that doesn't exist.''
Dwight Pfennig, the deputy education commissioner, said schools across the state had adopted a variety of measures, depending on their needs. ''Most common,'' Mr. Pfennig said, ''are probably cameras, buzz-in entry, security guards hired by school districts to be greeters and direct people.''
Paramus, like many districts, instituted such measures as issuing ID's to school personnel and working with the police department on emergency procedures.
Paramus officials are using a federal grant and matching funds to install digital video cameras in the high school and two middle schools as they undergo renovation, Mayor James Tedesco said. The high-tech camera and computer system can observe areas in and around schools, analyze suspicious patterns of behavior and feed images to police headquarters in real time.
The system, developed by the New Jersey Institute of Technology, was first planned for use at the Garden State Plaza, which will install 50 cameras as part of a pilot project. But Paramus saw the benefits for the schools. And this past week, the Attorney General's office announced that West Paterson schools would begin using N.J.I.T.'s smart cameras.
The check list is being compiled from previous recommendations of the state Office of Emergency Management and a ''best practices list'' that former Gov. James E. McGreevey directed all state departments to draft and the education department adopted in the fall, said Dennis Quinn, executive assistant to the attorney general.
The state police is creating a cadre of instructors to train state, county and local law enforcement officers how to use the check list, said Acting Lieut. Douglas Heath, supervisor of the state police infrastructure security unit.
Then, state troopers will conduct the vulnerability assessments in the 76 municipalities where they are the primary police presence, Lieutenant Heath said. Other municipalities will use local officers, including crime prevention officers and school resource officers who are assigned to public schools. Federal homeland security officers will conduct three courses for school personnel on how to recognize and react to terrorist activities, Mr. Shuffler said. The first classes began in Atlantic City schools last week.
In Beslan, weapons were placed by terrorists at strategic locations during construction of the school. To prevent a similar occurrence here, police officers will visit construction sites periodically.
Photo: Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, left, Attorney General Peter Harvey, center, and Mayor James Tedesco of Paramus at a security announcement. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Inv1
