Southern Phone Company breaches customer privacy, ACMA finds - Computerworld
Southern Phone Company breaches customer privacy, ACMA finds
Sign up now to get free exclusive access to reports, research and invitation only events.
Southern Phone Company breaches customer privacy, ACMA finds
Details of 3854 customers published in three online directories by mistake
Southern Phone Company (SPC) failed to protect the privacy of 3854 silent line customers when uploading customer data to the Integrated Public Number Database (IPND), the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) has ruled.Phone numbers, names and address details were published in three online directories between 18 March and 24 July last year.In addition, some of the customer had their details published in paper directories. SPC notified all customers about the privacy breach and offered them a new phone number free of charge.ACMA found that SPC contravened clause 4.6.3 of the Telecommunications Consumer Protections Code, clause 5.12 of the IPND industry code and subsection 101 (1) of the Telecommunications Act 1997.Failure by a telco provider to honour a customers request for a silent number is an issue that the ACMA takes very seriously, particularly given that such requests often arise from concerns over personal safety, said ACMA chairperson Chris Chapman.
SPC's enforceable undertaking commits it to upgrading its data collection, engaging an independent auditor to review its processes, beginning an education and training program, and reporting to the ACMA.If SPC does not meet the enforceable undertaking, it would be subject to Federal Court proceedings, said Chapman.SPC has been approached for comment.Follow Hamish Barwick on Twitter: @HamishBarwick
Follow Computerworld Australia on Twitter: @ComputerworldAU, or take part in the Computerworld conversation on LinkedIn: Computerworld Australia
Data retention: Government yet to reveal details of funding arrangements
Privacy Commissioner investigating iiNet data breach
More about Australian Communications and Media AuthorityTwitter
NBN: Return to fibre-to-the-home rollout seems increasingly unlikely
NBNs fibre to the most economic point a global trend, local Nokia boss argues
Fujitsu wins $15.3m Tasmanian emergency dispatch system contract
Email Archive Essentials: Key Considerations When Moving to Office 365
Forrester Wave Report for Privileged Identity Management
The definitive guide to enterprise applications on hyperconverged infrastructure
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Competition concerns over Telstra role in NBN HFC rollout
Cause of Telstras mobile outages common to all networks, telco says
The week in security: IoT threat can be managed; FBI becomes iPhone ...
In Pictures: Ultimate guide to Raspberry Pi operating systems, part 1
Edge browser edges Chrome in early adoption sweepstakes
CSO Live Webcast: Hear from KuppingerCole Analysts and ForgeRock on User-Managed Access. Register now
REGISTER NOW! The TCS Global Insights Knowledge Sharing Program is up and running. Feb-May. Sydney.
APJ businesses think they will be breached: Here's why: Read the article NOW
INSIGHTS: The State of Cloud Storage & Collaboration 2016 - Take this 5 min survey and you could WIN a $500 Visa gift card : START SURVEY NOW
Copyright 2016 IDG Communications. ABN 14 001 592 650. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Communications is prohibited.
