The Ashley Madison affair: the privacy campaigners trying to get their way with a massive breach of privacy | Life and style | The Guardian
The Ashley Madison affair: the privacy campaigners trying to get their way with a massive breach of privacy
The website for extra-marital relationships has been hacked after charging users for a full delete of their data. Was it an inside job?
The Ashley Madison website sells married people the opportunity to have affairs with each other.
Appearance: Discreet, subtle but, you know, up for it.
Is this a male Ashley or a female Ashley? Neither. Its a corporate Ashley. Ashley Madison is the name of a website founded in Toronto in 2001, which sells married people the opportunity to connect with each other and have affairs.
Ah, yes. Ive heard of that. But why cant married people just have sex with their workmates as usual? Oh you know, it can get complicated. Plus not everybody has workmates they want sex with.
Nonsense! Id gladly have sex with you. Thanks. Anyway, Ashley Madison is in trouble because its ultra-sensitive customer data has just been breached by a hacker or hackers unknown.
Would you have sex with me? The hackers call themselves the Impact Team, and claim to have accessed the entire database of Ashley Madisons 37m users and the 1.3m users of Established Men (matching older men with younger women). They have already released some credit card details and company documents, and are threatening to publish everything else unless the parent company Avid Life Media shuts both sites down.
Are these family-values hackers then? No. They say they are responding to the fact that Ashley Madison charges departing users $19 to conduct a full delete of their data. (Although they can leave and become nearly untraceable for free.)
So they are online privacy campaigners, but they are trying to get their way with a massive breach of online privacy? Thats right. If their demands are not met, they promise to release all the customers secret sexual fantasies, nude pictures, and conversations and matching credit card transactions, real names and addresses.
A bit hypocritical maybe? Or maybe a bit personal. Avid Life Media says it suspects an inside job. Were on the doorstep of [confirming] who we believe is the culprit, and unfortunately that may have triggered this mass publication, says the sites founder Noel Biderman. Ive got their profile right in front of me, all their work credentials. It was definitely a person here that was not an employee but certainly had touched our technical services.
Do you at least think Im attractive? This comes just four months after a hack on Adult FriendFinder, which revealed the unusual sexual preferences of 3.5m people.
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
