Spotify Revamps New Privacy Policy After User Backlash : PERSONAL TECH : Tech Times
Spotify Revamps New Privacy Policy After User Backlash
Spotify has revamped its new privacy policy, as company CEO Daniel Ek kept his promise to protect the privacy of the music streaming service's users.(Photo : Spotify)
Spotify has revamped its new privacy policy for a clearer explanation on how the music streaming service utilizes the data of its users, after the company faced backlash from the vague language that it used for the controversial policy that was released last month.
The new privacy policy, which took effect last Aug. 19, requiredusers to agree that their information which Spotify gathers will be used, shared and processed by the service, including media files, pictures, details of contacts, and the location of the user.
It was unclear on why Spotify would need such information in carrying out its music streaming service, but users were being forced to agree to the policy if they wanted to continue using Spotify.
The new privacy policy sparked outrage and criticism from users due to privacy concerns, which promptedSpotify CEO Daniel Ek to issue an apology to the public regarding the matter, clarifying certain aspects of the policy and promising to protect the privacy of the service's users.
"If you don't want to share this kind of information, you don't have to. We will ask for your express permission before accessing any of this data - and we will only use it for specific purposes that will allow you to customize your Spotify experience," explained Ek.
It seems that Ek is following through with his promise, as Spotify has now released a revamped updated privacy policy with a plain-language introduction that looks to be a clear statement on Spotify's principles and approach regarding user privacy.
"We hope it provides a healthy dose of clarity and context too," wroteEk in the Spotify blog post that announces the updated policy.
The preface states that Spotify will only collect data either to help run the music streaming service or to provide more features to users. For the second purpose, Spotify will be asking for the permission of the user before accessing data such as pictures, location, voice, data sharing or contacts. If the user would choose to allow Spotify to access such information, the user can at any time choose to revoke the permission.
Spotify said that the revamped privacy policy will be received by users over the next few days and weeks, including users that already agreed to the controversial version of the policy.
Enjoyed reading this story? For more awesome news, reviews, features and analyses, subscribe to Tech Times newsletter. We value your privacy and we will never sell or distribute your email or personal data to third party advertisers.
Related ArticlesSpotify Partners With Withings To Release The Aura Connected Alarm Clock For An Enhanced Sleep ExperienceSpotify And Other Streaming Service Curators Are Reportedly Taking 'Playola' Payments For Playlist PlacementCountry Music Star Jason Aldean On Spotify: 'Artists Don't Make Crap'Spotify CEO Says Sorry After New Privacy Policy Makes Users See RedTop 10 Artist Lists Show Audience Differences Between SoundCloud, Spotify And YouTube
 2016 Tech Times, All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Adult FriendFinder Hack Has Compromised Your Sexual Orientation And Other Steamy Secrets. Oops!
Google I/O 2015 Kicking Off Next Week: What To Expect ... And Not Expect
Google To Fulfill All Project Fi Invites By Mid-Summer
Google I/O 2015 Kicking Off Next Week: What To Expect ... And Not Expect
Kickass Torrents, Torrentz Take Over As Court Orders The Pirate Bay Shutdown
Dating Site Adult Friend Finder Hacked, Exposing Millions Of Users
Popcorn Time Lets You Stream Torrents In Your Browser: Let's Go Pirates!
Genetic Incompatibilities Kept Lineage Of Modern Humans And Neanderthals Apart
One Country Wants To Ban All Gas And Diesel Vehicles By 2025
Houston We've Got A Problem: NASA's Planet-Hunting Kepler Spacecraft Is In Emergency Mode
Pokmon GO Field Test Now Available In Australia And New Zealand
Houston We've Got A Problem: NASA's Planet-Hunting Kepler Spacecraft Is In Emergency Mode
Metal Foams Hold Promise Of New Technologies And Protection
Reverse Photosynthesis Uses Sunlight To Convert Plant Biomass Into Fuel
Vaginal Yeast Infection: Signs, Symptoms, Treatment And Prevention
Who's Going To Buy Yahoo? Why Are Companies Interested In The Ailing Internet Giant?
What's All The Fuss About Planet Nine: Just Another Planet Or Something Scientists Are Worried About?
Alphabet X Showcases New Bipedal Robot That Can Climb Stairs And Overcome Obstacles
'Dark Souls 3' Beginner's Guide: Building The Best Character For Melee Or Magic
Verizon Releases Android 6.0 Marshmallow Update For Samsung Galaxy S6 And S6 Edge
Interview: 'Axanar' Team Responds To CBS 'Star Trek' Lawsuit
Genetic Incompatibilities Kept Lineage Of Modern Humans And Neanderthals Apart
Ancient Power Elites Use Ritual Human Sacrifice To Create Unequal Societies
If You Forgot What Terror Was Like ... It's The Trap-Jaw Spider - With Lightning Strike!
HP Spectre vs Apple MacBook Air: Quick Comparison Of The Thinnest Laptops
Watch Lightweight Metal Foam Turn Armor-Piercing Bullet Into Dust
The Division General Assembly Glitch: Shortcut Allows You To Farm Purple Drops In Half The Time
Vitamin D Supplements Linked To Improvements In Heart Failure Patients
Interview: 'Axanar' Team Responds To CBS 'Star Trek' Lawsuit
Verizon Releases Android 6.0.1 Marshmallow For Samsung Galaxy S6 And S6 Edge
New 'Legend Of Zelda' Wii U Rumor Says Players Can Choose Between Male Or Female Link
Global Warming Threatens Mental Health: Climate Change May Increase Incidence Of PTSD And Depression
Nintendo Fires Female Staffer Alison Rapp: What Is The Real Reason?
What's All The Fuss About Planet Nine: Just Another Planet Or Something Scientists Are Worried About?
Which Retailer Exclusive Version Of 'Star Wars: The Force Awakens' On Blu-ray Is Best?
Samsung Galaxy S7 And S7 Edge Shipping Notices Arrive For T-Mobile Preorders
Nest May Offer Revolv Owners Compensation On Case-By-Case Basis
Genetic Incompatibilities Kept Lineage Of Modern Humans And Neanderthals Apart
Ancient Power Elites Use Ritual Human Sacrifice To Create Unequal Societies
Who's Going To Buy Yahoo? Why Are Companies Interested In The Ailing Internet Giant?
Reddit Introduces Block User Feature To Help Users Fight Harassment, Trolls And Spam
Samsung Likely Shipped 10 Million Galaxy S7 Units In Q1: Analyst
Saving Lives In Poor Nations Costs $5 Per Person: Health Study
Game Boy Zero Is A Game Boy With A Raspberry Pi Zero Brain, And You Can Play Every Retro Game Imaginable
Decline In Original Sharing Worries Facebook: Here's What's Happening
Touching Robots In Sensitive Places Turn On Humans: A Peek Of Things To Come?
'Titanfall 2' Teaser Trailer Brings A Sword To A Mech Fight
'Dark Souls 3' Beginner's Guide: Building The Best Character For Melee Or Magic
Interview: 'Axanar' Team Responds To CBS 'Star Trek' Lawsuit
'Dark Souls 3' Combat Guide: 5 Tips For New Players
The Latest PlayStation 4 Update Has Features Sony Didn't Tell Gamers About
The Price For A Subscription To Netflix Will Increase For 17 Million People Next Month
'Star Wars: The Force Awakens' And Pink Floyd's 'Dark Side Of The Moon' Sync Up Pretty Well
'Quantum Break' Beginner's Guide: The Best Way To Play
First Official MLB The Show 16 Roster Updates Won't Arrive Until Mid-April
New 'Legend Of Zelda' Wii U Rumor Says Players Can Choose Between Male Or Female Link
About Us | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Media Kit
Top Stories From Tech Times Delivered To Your Inbox.
