Wayne Gretzky Has a Few Points to Make About a Decline in Scoring and Creativity - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Hockey|Wayne Gretzky Has a Few Points to Make About a Decline in Scoring and Creativity
Wayne Gretzky Has a Few Points to Make About a Decline in Scoring and Creativity
The Rangers Reijo Ruotsalainen, left, tried to contain Wayne Gretzky, who scored 215 points for the Edmonton Oilers in 1985-86.
With 102 points through 80 games, Patrick Kane of the Chicago Blackhawks is poised to win the Art Ross Trophy as the N.H.L.s top point scorer. His superlative season has evoked achievements from an earlier era. He is the first American-born player with a 100-point season in 20 years. His 26-game point streak earlier in the season was the longest since 1992-93.But his league-leading numbers also reflect how far removed hockey is from its offensive heyday.Thirty years ago, Wayne Gretzky set a single-season N.H.L. record with a mind-boggling 215 points in 80 games for the Edmonton Oilers, completing the feat with an assist on a Marty McSorley goal in the season finale against the Vancouver Canucks on April 6, 1986.That season, N.H.L. teams averaged 3.97 goals apiece per game. It was the second-highest average since the leagues 1967-68 expansion to 12 teams from six. The peak was 4.01 in 1981-82.At the 30th anniversary of Gretzkys seemingly unbreakable record, another statistic stands out: N.H.L. scoring has continued to decline since the 1985-86 season, never topping the 3.97 mark.The roots of that decline are clear in the mind of Gretzky, the N.H.L.s career leading scorer with 2,857 points.
With 102 points in 80 games, Patrick Kane of the Chicago Blackhawks is poised to win the Art Ross Trophy as the N.H.L.s top point scorer.
When I was 10 years old, theyd throw a puck on the ice and say, Go score, he said. Now, at 10 years old, the kids are taught to play in their lanes. Defensemen stay back. Everybody blocks shots. I mean, my goodness, I dont think I ever blocked a shot, and I killed penalties every single game. I thought goaltenders were paid to block shots, not forwards. Its changed completely. I think the biggest thing weve lost is a little bit of our creativity and imagination in general.This season, goals per team per game (2.71) are lower than at any time since the so-called dead puck era of 1995 to 2004, when interference tactics and the neutral zone trap were rampant.
While Gretzky cited players like Kane, Jonathan Toews, Sidney Crosby, Alex Ovechkin and Steven Stamkos as having imagination and creativity, todays hockey is far from his run-and-gun prime. Continue reading the main story
All in all, its sort of a grinding game now, he said. Youre taught from Day 1 that your role and responsibility is to keep the puck out of your net.Many factors enabled Gretzky to set his 215-point record, which surpassed his previous high of 212 from 1981-82. At 25, Gretzky was at his physical peak and a playmaking genius surrounded by other superstars. Those Oilers had six future Hockey Hall of Famers: Gretzky, Mark Messier, Jari Kurri, Glenn Anderson, Paul Coffey and Grant Fuhr. In 1985-86, Coffey was third in the league in points, with 138, and Kurri was fourth, with 131.
In the 30 years since Wayne Gretzky set the single-season N.H.L. record of 215 points in 80 games for the Edmonton Oilers, scoring has declined.
Gretzky, the N.H.L.s career leading scorer, led the league in points 10 times.
The number of goals scored per team per game had fallen to 2.71 this season, as of Tuesday.
*From 1995 to 2004, interference tactics and a neutral zone trap were rampant. Rule changes were instituted in 2005-6 in an effort to increase scoring.
Gretzky, the N.H.L.s career leading scorer, led the league in points 10 times.
The number of goals scored per team per game had fallen to 2.71 this season, as of Tuesday.
*From 1995 to 2004, interference tactics and a neutral zone trap were rampant. Rule changes were instituted in 2005-6 in an effort to increase scoring.
Gretzky said that Glen Sather, who coached the Oilers to four of their five Stanley Cups, was the true architect of this offensive juggernaut. Sather, 72, is currently the president of the Rangers.He had a vision, Gretzky said. He idolized what the Winnipeg Jets did in the W.H.A. with Anders Hedberg, Ulf Nilsson, Lars-Erik Sjoberg and Bobby Hull. He wanted to create an N.H.L. team that was on par with that. So he didnt try to change what we did as a positive. He gave us the ability to go out there and be ourselves, and yet he pushed us and made us better athletes. No question about it.The last time teams averaged more than three goals apiece per game was 2005-6 (3.08). After the lockout that wiped out the 2004-5 season, the N.H.L. introduced rules to encourage more scoring.The center red line was disregarded to allow for two-line passes that could beat the neutral zone trap. A trapezoid was put behind the net to limit the area in which goaltenders could play the puck. Teams icing the puck were no longer permitted to substitute fresh players for the ensuing face-off in the defensive zone.The N.H.L. also moved toward a zero tolerance officiating standard. Power plays gained a big role. The average number of power plays per team in 2005-6 was 480, compared with 348 in 2003-4.
Gretzky with his mother, Phyllis, before the start of the N.H.L. All-Star banquet in Hartford in 1986.
But none of these changes have had a lasting impact. For example, the average number of power plays per team this season is 249.
Daniel Sedin, who won the Art Ross Trophy as the N.H.L.s leading scorer with 104 points for the Canucks in 2010-11, acknowledged that the ultratight officiating had gradually diminished. But he said there had also been benefits to limiting the speed of the game and the number of violent collisions, which surged after the 2004-5 lockout.Its obviously not being called the way it was 10 years ago, Sedin said. But I think also head shots, those bad hits, are gone, too. Its a fine line between calling the game the way it was 10 years ago and also protecting the players. I dont think theres much you can do there. I think its more about how teams are coached, how good and how patient every player is now.Ken Holland, the general manager of the Detroit Red Wings, attributed the reduced scoring to greater competitive balance, more data about opponents and similar coaching strategies leaguewide.If the scores were 6-5, you could afford mistakes because you can outscore your mistakes, Holland said. But when the scores are 2-1 or 3-2, mistakes are critical.
The most outstanding goalie in 1985-86 was the Rangers John Vanbiesbrouck, left, who was listed at 5 feet 8 and 176 pounds. At 6-5 and 217 pounds, the Predators Pekka Rinne, right, embodies the modern goalie.
Graig Abel Collection/Getty Images; Mark Humphrey/Associated Press
If scoring is to rise again, significant changes to the way hockey is played and coached will be needed.Last season, Jamie Benn of the Dallas Stars was the leagues top scorer, with 87 points in 82 games. The last time an Art Ross Trophy winner had fewer points than that in a full season was 1962-63, when Gordie Howe had 86 points in 70 games for the Red Wings.The last Art Ross Trophy winner to get the same number of points as Gretzky had assists in 1985-86 (163) was none other than Gretzky, in 1990-91. That was also the last season any player had more than 100 assists. Erik Karlsson of the Ottawa Senators was leading the league this season, with 64 through Wednesday.
Goalies, at least, enjoy the current climate. Pekka Rinne of the Nashville Predators epitomizes the modern N.H.L. goalie with his 6-foot-5, 217-pound frame and elite technical skills. The Vezina Trophy winner in 1985-86 was John Vanbiesbrouck, who was listed at 5-8 and 176 pounds.At the general managers meetings last month in Boca Raton, Fla., the league set out proposals to streamline goalie equipment, particularly pants and chest protectors. The objective is to increase scoring opportunities and reduce the ability of goalies to rely on padding to compensate for a lack of skill or size, while also keeping them safe. In recent years, the N.H.L. also changed the rules about the length of goalie pads, making them shorter.New equipment prototypes are expected to be ready by June. Making them standard issue next season would require the approval of the N.H.L.s competition committee and Board of Governors.Rinne, a 33-year-old Finn who is a three-time Vezina finalist, said he had little appetite for drastic action to ramp up scoring.Its good to have these conversations, Rinne said. Im sure something is going to happen. Hopefully nothing radical. I dont want to change this great game. If its goalie equipment, then it is, but hopefully its not bigger nets.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page B8 of the New York edition with the headline: Gretzky Has a Few Points to Make .
N.H.L. This Week: Playoff Spots at Stake as Season Winds Down
Coming In From the Cold: John Scott Is Joining the Canadiens
N.H.L. This Week: Playoff Spots at Stake as Season Winds Down
Coming In From the Cold: John Scott Is Joining the Canadiens
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
