Dot-Music, Dot-Sport and (Security Experts Hope) Dot-Secure - The New York Times
Dot-Music, Dot-Sport and (Security Experts Hope) Dot-Secure
Dot-Music, Dot-Sport and (Security Experts Hope) Dot-Secure
Will the new Internet with hundreds of new top-level domain names be more secure or a wild free for all?
Until now, the Web has been organized into 22 familiar top-level domains  those two or three letters that come after the period  like .com, .org, .net, .gov and so on. But now, with the Internet crunched for space, the body that governs the domain name system, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, or Icann, is about to throw open the floodgates to thousands of new top-level domains.
Icann started accepting applications for new domains in January and will announce the winners this year. One year from now, you might find yourself browsing a site that ends in .coffee, .sport, .travel, or a non-English, or even non-Latin, script. Icann has already received 2,100 applications from 1,300 applicants, quadruple the number of applications expected.
The expansion has been controversial to say the least. Rod Beckstrom, Icanns departing president, praised the change as a new domain name system revolution. But others have predicted World War Web.
The loudest critics have been security specialists who paint a frightening, Wild West landscape rife with turf wars between cybersquatters and companies, as well as hackers who can more easily game the system.
For now, anyone browsing Apple.com can be reasonably confident they are, in fact, communicating with Apple. The new system will not be so straightforward. Complicating matters is the fact that any trademark, anywhere, can be used by an applicant to establish ownership. Google, for example, will not have a hard time securing .google. But Icann will have a harder time deciding who should own .apple: Apple, or the Washington State Apple Commission.
The application process itself has already been a bit of a disaster. Icann had to pull its application site off line on April 12 after a bug made it possible for applicants to view other applications (no small blunder when you consider that it costs each applicant $185,000 to apply).
But one group of security experts plans to use the top-level domain changes to carve out a trusted, hacker-free zone on the Web. Alex Stamos, a security expert at Artemis Internet Inc., a security firm based in San Francisco, said he filed an application for a .secure domain.
In the end, were all just professional critics unless we do something about this, Mr. Stamos said in an interview. This is anopportunity to create a part of the Internet where the old rules dont apply.
Mr. Stamos says security technologies are still optional on the Web and it is often the users job to decipher whether or not they are browsing safely.
If you want to securely browse the Web at Starbucks, or use a social network in Syria, you have to be a security expert to notice if somethings wrong. I can only name 2,000 cryptographers who are qualified to do that, said Mr. Stamos.
Jeremiah Grossman, a chief technology officer at Whitehat Security, said: Im surprised the Web has survived this long. The only thing keeping it alive, at this point, is the fact the bad guys dont want to bring it down.
Mr. Stamos said he hopes .secure will be the closest anything has come to a safe browsing experience on the Web. Anyone who wants to host their site on the domain  think BankofAmerica.secure or Facebook.secure  will have to be personally vetted by an Artemis security expert and required to abide by certain security standards.
To establish those security requirements, Artemis put together a working group of security experts from a broad range of technology and financial institutions. Mr. Stamos said five companies had already committed to the Domain Policy Working Group.
He said it was too early to disclose which ones, but he qualified them as a software provider, three major Internet companies and a major payments company  most likely PayPal. In a blog post on Thursday, Brad Hill, a security expert at PayPal, confirmed that PayPal had been invited to join the working group and praised the effort.
Once security standards are established, Mr. Stamos said Artemis will police subdomains with scanning technologies to determine if they are up to snuff. Minor loopholes will elicit a warning or suspension until the problem is fixed. More egregious security holes will get a subdomain owner kicked to the curb.
We want this to be a safe, gated neighborhood on the Web, Mr. Stamos said. So if you want to be a member, were going to make sure you arent running the online equivalent of a meth lab in your garage.
Artemis Internet Co., hackers, ICANN, security, top-level domains
Visit the Technology section for complete coverage of the industry. 
