Botched database leaks records for 191 million voters
Stealth on the Navy's newest destroyers might be too good
Senators work on what might be the most anti-encryption bill yet
OS X update fixed 'simple' bug that could leak your iMessages
President Obama will guest host on Science Channel this week
New Balance's rare 3D-printed running shoes cost $400
The Notorious B.I.G. might be going on tour in hologram form
Watch the first live VR surgery stream on April 14th
Botched database leaks records for 191 million voters
If you've voted in the US since 2000, there's a chance your personal info is out in the wild.
Did you vote in a US election sometime this century?
Researcher Chris Vickery has discovered that a badly configured database exposed the voter registration info for 191 million Americans, including addresses, party affiliations and state voter IDs.
It's not clear who originally managed the data, but Vickery and Databreaches.net are reaching out to everyone from online services to Congressional political action committees.
The two are also contacting law enforcement in hopes of shutting down the leak, although it's not certain that officials are taking action.
The consequences of this database falling into the wrong hands could be severe, as you might have guessed.
Less-than-scrupulous marketers and political campaigns could exploit the data, and criminals could combine it with other info to commit fraud or theft.
It's a particularly big problem for people who need to keep their details secret, such as stalking victims and police.
Beyond this, the leak illustrates the need for stricter, consistent security standards around voter data -- while states like California and South Dakota have sharp limits on where records go and what they're used for, other states (including Alaska, Arkansas and Colorado) have no real restrictions.
There's a real possibility that this kind of incident could happen again.[Image credit: Getty Images]
President Obama will guest host on Science Channel this week
He's there to help drive youth interest in science as the White House Science Fair takes place.
Step back in time with a mysterious, unreleased Neo Geo game
Nearly 30 years after its debut, SNK's system still has secrets.
Stealth on the Navy's newest destroyers might be too good
Zumwalt-class ships could go to sea wearing safety reflectors.
New Balance's rare 3D-printed running shoes cost $400
Only 44 pairs of the Zante Generate are being sold.
The Notorious B.I.G. might be going on tour in hologram form
"I never wish death on nobody, cause there aint coming back from that."
