Flight Attendant Cocaine Case Raises Security Issues - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
U.S.|Flight Attendant Cocaine Case Raises Security Issues
Flight Attendant Cocaine Case Raises Security Issues
Allan Jennings, a spokesman for Marsha Gay Reynolds, the flight attendant accused of transporting cocaine. Ms. Reynoldss special privileges let her evade security, officials say.
Within hours of ditching 70 pounds of cocaine at a security checkpoint and bolting barefoot out of the main Los Angeles airport, an off-duty flight attendant was flying across the country after clearing security at the same airport, law enforcement officials say.The flight attendant, Marsha Gay Reynolds, simply used an airline badge with her real name to board another flight the next morning at one of the nations busiest airports, officials said.Communication lapses, bureaucratic complications and special security privileges afforded airline workers all contributed to Ms. Reynoldss ability to remain out of the grasp of law enforcement authorities until she surrendered four days later at Kennedy Airport in New York.This is a security breakdown, said Marshall McClain, president of the union representing Los Angeles airport police officers. That could have easily been an explosive device and a terrorist running from the checkpoint. And we wouldnt have known until it went boom. Ms. Reynolds, 31, who was a flight attendant for JetBlue, was off duty when she arrived March 18 at a security checkpoint at the Los Angeles airport, wearing jeans and a black suit jacket and carrying her known crew member badge, according to an F.B.I. affidavit filed in support of the charge against her.
When she was chosen for a random security screening, Transportation Security Administration officers reported, she became nervous and made a phone call in a foreign language before she dropped her bags, kicked off her shoes, ran down an upward-moving escalator and out of the airport, the affidavit said.Airport police officers found 11 packages of cocaine wrapped in green cellophane inside one of the bags Ms. Reynolds left behind, the affidavit said. The drugs had an estimated street value of up to $3 million.Employee badges allow airline workers to get through security faster to reduce lines and allow T.S.A. agents to focus on travelers. To obtain the badges, airline workers must submit to a background check that includes fingerprinting.Crew members do not have to be wearing uniforms or have a boarding pass when using the badges. But they are still subject to random screenings.The fact that Ms. Reynolds was able to fly so soon after her mad dash through the airport did not particularly surprise Jeff Price, an aviation expert, who said the system is designed to catch terrorists, not criminals.The involvement of the crew member badge might cause the T.S.A. to look at this program a little more closely, to see if this is going to be a problem from a terrorist perspective, Mr. Price said.Mr. McClain said the case came amid long-held fears about the threat of a terrorist gaining special access to airports and planes using the crew member program or about people who become radicalized after obtaining such access.The T.S.A. has said that full screening of all employees would cost too much. Instead, the agency has urged airports to increase random screenings of workers and to keep background checks up to date.
No bulletin for Ms. Reynoldss arrest was immediately issued. The T.S.A. would not have flagged her name because she did not pose a terrorist threat, according to an airport security official with knowledge of the investigation.The Drug Enforcement Administration did not learn about the drugs until at least five hours after Ms. Reynolds fled and did not know her name until well after she had boarded a flight to her home in New York, according to a federal law enforcement official with knowledge of the investigation.A T.S.A. spokesman, Mike England, said in a statement that the agency immediately notified and began working with local law enforcement to identify the individual.Following events such as this, we conduct a full review of our procedures to determine how best to improve upon an already strong security foundation, he said.The T.S.A. did not verify Ms. Reynoldss name until at least Saturday because no one at the airport is allowed access to the database that recorded the scan of her crew member badge, airport security and federal officials said.As a result, T.S.A. officials are recommending that someone with access to the database be required to be at airports across the country, an airport security official said. The agency declined to provide details about the crew member program, citing the investigation.Mr. Price confirmed that no one at airports can get into the database. He said the information went to a remote location. And he said he doubted that anybody was staffing that location on a 24-hour basis, simply because it is rare for anyone to need access to the database. If a crew member is turned away after a badge is scanned, that person could just go through a regular security screening, he said.Ms. Reynolds, a former Jamaican beauty queen and New York University track athlete, faces at least 10 years in prison if convicted of the federal drug charge against her.
A spokesman for her family, Allan Jennings, said she may not have been fully aware of what was in the bags.On Friday, a judge in New York City ordered that Ms. Reynolds be returned to Los Angeles. She will remain in custody at least until an April 7 hearing.
A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 2016, on page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Flight Attendant Drug Case Raises Security Issues.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
