A sordid orgy and why Max Mosley can't be allowed to erase history | Daily Mail Online
A sordid orgy and why Max Mosley can't be allowed to erase history
A sordid orgy and why Max Mosley can't be allowed to erase history
More than any man on earth, the former Formula One racing chief Max Mosley is trying to rewrite the rules that have governed the workings of a free Press for many years, not just in this country but throughout Europe.His latest assault is on the internet giant Google. He has been trying to persuade a French court that the web engine should be prevented from directing users to pictures of a private orgy that he organised five years ago.The photographs, involving Mr Mosley and five consensual prostitutes, were originally published by the now defunct News of the World in March 2008. It alleged that Mr Mosley had been engaged in a sick Nazi orgy.
Mr Mosley has been trying to persuade a French court that Google should be prevented from directing users to pictures of a private orgy that he organised five years ago
Google's response to Mr Mosley is that the application of filters would amount to a form of censorship
To the astonishment of many, three months later Mr Mosley won damages of 60,000 in the High Court from the paper, which was held to have invaded his privacy. Although German was spoken, uniforms worn and blood was shed by Mosley during the proceedings, and despite heads apparently being inspected as though for lice, the learned judge declared there was no evidence that this had been a Nazi orgy.Mr Justice Eady ruled that if it had been a Nazi orgy he might have found in favour of the newspaper, since Mr Mosley was a public figure of sorts whose suitability for his high-profile job would have been seriously called into question by such antics. As there was no such proof, the paper was required to pay damages and costs.Buoyed by this significant (and to my mind irrational) verdict, Mr Mosley set about trying to restrict the activities of the Press. In 2011 he argued in the European Court of Human Rights that prior notification should be compulsory for newspapers, to give their targets time to obtain an injunction preventing publication.
(left to right) Woman D, Woman B and Woman C, above and a fourth, Woman A, all denied there was any Nazi element to the orgy at the trial against the News of The World
In other words, a politician or businessman caught doing something wrong could try to persuade a sympathetic judge to kill off the story. Mercifully, the Court had a fit of good sense, and seven of its judges ruled that the right to freedom of expression would be at risk if pre-notification was compulsory.But Mr Mosley was, and is, a man obsessed. One way or another the Press must be curbed. His lawyers have just argued in front of French judges that Google should apply filters so that people would be unable to access photographs of his orgy.
If Mr Mosley had his way, it would not be long before George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four became one step closer to reality
The unwary might suppose that this is perfectly reasonable. If the News of the World was, according to an English judge, guilty of invading Mr Mosleys privacy when it originally published photographs of his orgy, why should those photographs be available on the net?Googles response is that the application of filters would amount to a form of censorship. Access to news sites carrying the pictures, or to innocuous articles containing the images, might be blocked. In short, the prohibition would extend much further than the photographs.If anything, Google is understating the case. Should Mr Mosley get his way, the consequence could be the rewriting or erasing of chunks of history. Whether or not his privacy was invaded, the photographs exist and no one has challenged their authenticity. They amount to a historical record of a sordid event which indubitably took place. Decent people might wish that it hadnt, but it did.These images continue to exist not only on the net but in libraries and private homes. If they were wiped out on the internet  actually, they physically cant be, but access to them can be denied  they would logically have to be destroyed wherever else they might survive. That sounds like a police state.If Mr Mosley wins this battle, his next step might be to request that any articles which so much as referred to the pictures of his orgy, or the orgy itself, should also be destroyed, possibly including this one.
Mr Mosley, pictured here with F1 models in Barcelona, faced calls for his resignation when the story was published
want to rewrite their pasts would also apply to have access blocked to
discreditable information about them on the internet. In fact, its
European Unions highest court is considering whether Spains privacy
regulator may have overstepped the mark when trying to force Google to
remove unflattering search results for numerous citizens  for example, a
doctor who claimed that a 1991 news article about a dispute with a
patient had damaged his business.Of course, libellous or untrue articles can, and should, be taken off the net. Google says it has removed hundreds of such pages relating to Mr Mosley following requests from him.Equally, the search engine should do much more to block access to extreme pornographic websites. But such a welcome move does not involve the rewriting of history to which Mr Mosleys innovations would lead us.
Steve Coogan, Hugh Grant and Max Mosley give evidence to the Joint Committee on Privacy and Injunctions: Though he has denied giving donations to Hacked Off, the pressure group campaigning for tougher regulation of British newspapers, he is a supporter of the organisation
long before George Orwells Nineteen Eighty-Four became one step closer
to reality. In that book, Winston Smith is employed as a clerk in the
Ministry of Truth, rewriting historical documents to match the
STEPHEN GLOVER: The irony is, Cameron's obduracy on foreign aid proves the Tories are STILL the 'nasty' party
STEPHEN GLOVER: Why have the Tories got it in for buy-to-let landlords?
STEPHEN GLOVER: A married celebrity (with children) who courts the Press has a threesome. So what right does a judge have to cover up his hypocrisy?
STEPHEN GLOVER: Daft police, an asinine stunt and the question: Is it time to put Top Gear out of its misery?
STEPHEN GLOVER:I'd be amazed if the Queen wasn't Eurosceptic - and good for her if she had a pop at Cleggie
STEPHEN GLOVER: Tony Blair's deranged, messianic egotism laid bare the dangerous flaws in our democracy
STEPHEN GLOVER: Why I no longer give to charities whose bosses take home fat cat salaries
STEPHEN GLOVER: Why DO so many Lefties and luvvies loathe this country?
STEPHEN GLOVER: This vengeful persecution of whistleblowers in the NHS is yet another 'triumph' for Lord Leveson
I exaggerate? I dont think so. Mr Mosley does not like freedom much.
At a meeting of a Commons select committee in March he shocked
observers. He suggested that access to foreign-based websites could be
blocked if they flouted tough new rules that might be introduced by
British regulators. Thats what they do in dictatorships such as Iran
and China.Its surely no accident that Mr Mosley should have started his assault on freedom in France, a country with ferocious privacy laws in which newspapers are traditionally cowed by politicians and the courts.Until shortly before his death, French newspapers did not dare reveal the truth about the war record, private life and financial misdemeanours of former president Francois Mitterrand.For example, there was scant discussion of the period during the early years of World War II when he supported Petains pro-German Vichy regime, and allegations that he protected Nazi collaborators who helped deport French Jews to death camps were also downplayed. It was only in the months before his death that the Press revealed that Mitterrand had fathered an illegitimate child by a secret mistress.The French court will deliver its verdict on Mr Mosleys latest legal challenge, subject to appeal, on October 21. Meanwhile, he is also challenging Google in the German courts. He is aiming for Europe-wide controls on the web engine  and of course he has lots of money.Though he has denied giving donations to Hacked Off, the pressure group campaigning for tougher regulation of British newspapers, he is a supporter of the organisation and has reportedly financed hacking victims lawyers. Will Hacked Off now condemn him for wishing to censor the internet? Of course not. What Mr Mosley yearns for, Hacked Off also wants.He is a very wealthy man who organised a sordid orgy which the News of the World could have justly described as German-themed. Nevertheless, he won his case. Meanwhile, that newspaper has been closed down for unconnected reasons.But that is not enough for him. His war of vengeance against the Press continues. It as if newspapers must suffer because he has been damaged.He blames everyone except himself. It seems never to occur to Max Mosley that he may have acted unwisely or wrongly. In trying to bury his unwholesome past, this peculiar man would, if he could, cheerfully dismantle all our freedoms.
Primary school teacher sacked over this 'inappropriate'...
Caught on video: Texas teacher arrested after hitting a...
SNL has fun with Clinton's subway gaffe earlier this week
Eye-watering moment a matador is gored in the buttocks
'What the f***?': Terrified boy haunted by ghost in bedroom
Skier effortlessly zips through trees and negotiates huge...
Woman lashes out at American Airlines staff after flight...
Don't mess with Grandma: Seriously don't, she'll cut you!
Duchess of Cambridge struggles with the wind in New Delhi
Southern mother shoots then sledgehammers children's phone
Terrifying moment crane collapses dropping 70 tonne plane
She bear-ly escaped: Unsuspecting snowboarder chased by bear
EXCLUSIVE: How Michelle Obama refused to invite Hillary and...
Wills' regal touch: Prince's tender moment with Kate as...
Was it revenge? Former Saints player Will Smith had dined...
Trump claims Republican Party is 'disenfranchising people'...
Kate's Marilyn moment: Duchess struggles to control her...
Primary school teacher is sacked after video of her twerking...
Trump who? Megyn Kelly puts the trials of the presidential...
Golf is such a cruel game sometimes! Jordan Spieth is...
Birthday cake, Welsh rarebit... and super-strong G&Ts;! Kate...
Bullseye! The VERY eye-watering moment a matador is gored in...
War is over! Grinning Rocco, 15, emerges after spending two...
Sir Tom Jones's wife of 59 years who he described as 'the...
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Birthday cake, Welsh rarebit... and super-strong G&Ts! Kate wears 3,000 Indian-inspired dress as she and William attend lavish garden party to celebrate Queen's 90th
Forget something Kate? Duchess reveals she missed out on a pre-tour pedicure as she removes her shoes to show unpolished toes at Gandhi museum
Caroline Flack gets saucy as she strips down to her knickers in sexy selfie... after 'landing new radio show in 100,000 deal'
Riley Keough's naked ambition laid bare in graphic sex scene in debut episode of call girl series The Girlfriend Experience
WAG in training! TOWIE's Ferne McCann flashes her bra in leggy thigh-split dress as she parties with 'beau' Dele Alli to mark his birthday and Spurs win
Caitlyn Jenner fakes an orgasm in VERY awkward group workshop that includes her sister and friends in new I Am Cait episode
'The dead are coming': Game Of Thrones fans get an insight into season six as full trailer is released... but Jon Snow is still dead
'That's outrageous!' Loose Women stars blast Lynda Bellingham's widower following shocking claim he has sex with the late star's ghost
Sir Tom Jones's wife of 59 years who he described as 'the love of my life' dies with the singer by her bedside after a 'short but fierce battle with cancer'
Dame Helen Mirren wows in navy lace dress with Colin Firth on red carpet at premiere of late co-star Alan Rickman's final film Eye In The Sky
'Excuse me, I'm more famous': Cara Delevingne gets photobombed by Jean-Claude Van Damme at LAX as he blasts paps for ignoring him
One stylish bargain hunter! Kendall Jenner shows her model good looks in a Rolling Stones shirt as she looks for vintage treats
As Blake Lively and Jessica Alba ditch their bold necklaces in favor of shoulder duster earrings, FEMAIL reveals the chicest danglers on the market
'I fell to pieces': Paul Daniels' widow Debbie McGee says she is a fragile 'eggshell' as she makes first TV appearance since her husband's death
Jameela Jamil unveils 'unapologetically glamorous' new collection of festival-inspired looks for women sized 10 to 32
'It was a secret we couldn't talk about': Kylie says she's 'always known' Caitlyn was transgender... as she joins young stars in Marie Claire
Gwyneth Paltrow admits she struggles to keep her kids healthy, as she insists she would STILL rather 'smoke crack' than eat canned cheese
'I think I am too good for ITV': Ricky Wilson takes a pop at the channel ahead of The Voice's switch from the BBC
Busty Emily Ratajkowski takes the plunge in a stylish white swimsuit as she poses in a pool for Express One Eleven campaign
Ashley James displays her stunning newly-toned curves and ample cleavage after embarking on fitness regime with former Gladiators star
Just like dad! Josh Duhamel and son Axl wear matching caps and hightops on boys day out
The apple has not fallen far from the tree with this one, clearly
'We can't keep away from each other': Holly Willoughby shows off holiday glow...after staying just 'two streets away' from Phillip Schofield in Portugal
Paris Jackson, 18, reveals MORE new tattoos... including a Motley Crue tribute on her bottom lip
'I love the weekend!' Cara Santana and boyfriend Jesse Metcalfe look happy and relaxed as they spend the day together
Adrienne Bailon and new boyfriend Israel Houghton put on a united front as they walk arm-in-arm following cheating rumours
Emmerdale's Matthew Wolfenden reveals he will 'shave off his hair, eyebrows and eyelashes' for character's shocking cancer diagnosis
'Having a kiddie tantrum out back': Viewers are left shocked as an angry Jeremy Kyle guest lashes out backstage and punches a sofa
Kate's Marilyn moment: Duchess struggles to control her 1,700 dress as she and William lay a wreath at Delhi war memorial
EXCLUSIVE: 'Body shaming needs to change': Lucy Mecklenburgh flashes her toned abs in workout gear as she talks about online trolls
Kat is back! Jessie Wallace slips into her alter-ego's miniskirt as she and Shane Richie reunite to film EastEnders spin-off Redwater in Ireland
Imogen Thomas puts on a busty display in colourful bikini top while Aisleyne Horgan-Wallace shows off her curves in classic white two-piece in Miami
Had a good night? Bleary-eyed Chloe Sims looks worse for wear in a tiny plunging latex dress as she staggers out of Spurs star Dele Alli's birthday bash
It's a Pam-borghini! 'Garish' 300,000 pink Lamborghini covered in photographs of Pamela Anderson is spotted in London
Smoking hot! Bella Hadid leaves little to the imagination as she poses in a series of skimpy outfits for new photo shoot
BGT's Biggest Bloopers: From singing like a dog to chopping wood, the show's most toe-curling auditions revealed - so which act would YOU buzz?
Happy Rocco Ritchie, 15, enjoys walk with pals after reuniting with his mother Madonna following bitter feud... as father Guy is pictured cycling around London
Geordie Shore newbie Chantelle Connelly displays her taut stomach in a fishnet bikini as she puts on a sexy display inTenerife
Another night, another party! Johnny Manziel hits up favorite Hollywood club in same shirt and jeans he wore the night before hinting might play for Denver
She's a rocket! Millie Mackintosh's 'beau' Hugo Taylor posts flirty emojis under cheeky snap of her derriere... as Professor Green tweets about lost love
Duke of Cambridge is set to sample the world's HOTTEST chilli during his and Kate's visit to India - just days after it was revealed he doesn't like spicy food
The biggest star of all! Game Of Thrones icon Peter Dinklage looks so in love with wife Erica at show's Hollywood premiere
'We have a lovely relationship': Gary Lineker insists he and Danielle Bux are on 'brilliant' terms following divorce... but refuses to reveal reason for split
TOWIE's Megan McKenna drapes herself over love interest Pete Wicks in cosy snap... before explosive showdown with co-star Chloe Lewis
'She goes into her own world when singing': BGT star Beau Dermott, 12, is joined by her proud mum on Lorraine as they relive her golden buzzer performance
Squealing Susanna Reid cowers away from Piers Morgan as he waves a blade in her face on GMB while chatting with BGTsword swallower Alex Magala
'I'm dead excited': Besotted Samia Ghadie reveals she is set to marry fiancSylvain Longchambon this summer
Heading to Muscle Beach? Arnold Schwarzenegger's mini-me love child looks ready to pump iron as he steps out in shorts and T-shirt
How many does she have in a year? Salim Mehajer posts bizarre birthday message to his wife Aysha in photo with rapper Tyga and singer Omarion
Lynda Bellingham's widower poses for exotic holiday snaps and posts them on HER Twitter account as her furious sons say they have received just 750
Downton Abbey's Allen Leech reveals there are 'possible negotiations' over widely-discussed movie as he joins Joanne Frogatt at The Contenders Q&A
'My happy little bunny!' Sam Faiers poses with giggly baby Paul as she shares sweet snaps of her son on family break in Dubai
Super-fit Melanie Sykes co-ordinates a charcoal coat with her workout gear as she leaves a morning Pilates session
Super-fit Gemma Atkinson shows off her ample bosom and pert posterior in skin-tight workout gear for fun run
Chiwetel Ejiofor and model flame Frances Aaternir look smitten as they enjoy courtside date night at the Knicks basketball game
'You will have half a penis!' Iggy Azalea puts fiance Nick Young on notice after cheating scandal as she goes on a radio publicity tour
'You saw his wit, warmth and humanity': Helen Mirren looks lovely in a polka dot dress as she discusses her new film with the late Alan Rickman
Kylie Jenner flashes her lacy black bra in a see-through top as she enjoys a sushi date with a gal pal
Kim Kardashian puts on an ample display as she slips into black bodysuit topped with fray detail collarless coat
Sisterly support! Sophie Turner playfully grabs Maisie Williams' chest as the pair stun in eye-catching ensembles at the Game of Thrones season premiere
Something blue... Kate Hudson wows as she takes the plunge in cobalt gown topped with shaggy jacket at stylist Jamie Schneider's pre-wedding celebration
Victoria and David Beckham hold hands in a sweet snapshot captured by aspiring photographer son Brooklyn
'Her first runway appearance': Pregnantmodel Bar Refaeli shows off her blossoming bump as she pampers herself
Fitness guru Joe Wicks reveals he turns over 1m EVERY month as he heads to the US after scoring one of biggest selling cookbooks in UK history
Halsey continues to push the boundaries in skimpy white cut-out bodysuit as she performs at the MTV Movie Awards
Can't stop, won't stop! Kylie Jenner adds METALLIC lipsticks to her make-up line, and big sister Khloe Kardashian is the first try them out
Sofia Richie, 17, shows edgy style in ripped leather trousers as she leaves celebrity hotspot after partying with her boyfriend
Top of the crops! Karrueche Tran rocks capris as she celebrates her little brother's birthday with some fancy sushi and a night of arcade games
Bikini-clad Aisleyne Horgan-Wallace shows off her slim curves and ample cleavage while soaking up the sun in Miami
Phylicia Rashad refuses to comment on Bill Cosby rape allegations in new interview saying she is 'not connected to the story at all'
Blac Chyna andRob Kardashian set to earn '$1 million in TV wedding special as they gear up to star in their own reality series'
'We still fancy the pants off each other!' Holly Willoughby admits she's still head over heels with husband Dan Baldwin after nearly a decade of marriage
'You can't change someone's heart and bad habits': Khloe Kardashian posts sad Instagram note... as downcast ex Lamar Odom goes shopping
The Voice UK winner Kevin Simm can hardly contain his joy as he leaves radio appearance following talent show triumph
Is this the end of embarrassing camel toe? Leggings feature a new 'U-shaped inseam' to prevent ultimate fashion faux pas and give a smoother shape
Cameron Diaz looks effortless in loose jeans and cosy layers as she towers over husband Benji Madden during Aspen stroll
Sharks, stingrays and a Tyga! Kylie Jenner's rapper boyfriend shows no fear as he swims with sea creatures on his day off from Australian tour
'20 years ago on this day': Hugh Jackman shares flashback photo as he stands beside his blushing bride Deborra-Lee Furness to mark the couple's anniversary
Bella Thorne shows off her endless legs in denim mini and sky-high wedges as she returns from fun-filled Miami getaway
'Do not bulls**t me!' TOWIE's Chloe Lewis furiously accuses Megan McKenna of sleeping with her boyfriend Jake Hall in ANOTHER showdown
Oops she did it again! Britney Spears revamps her costumes for Vegas show with EVEN SEXIER outfits as she electrifies onstage
'I'd been having Botox and fillers since my late 30s': Olympic swimmer Sharron Davies, 53, reveals she's been undergoing cosmetic procedures for decades
Wills' regal touch: Prince's tender moment with Kate as duchess dazzles in blue beaded gown while meeting Bollywood royalty at glittering gala in India
'I'm known to be quite vexing': Margot Robbie's Harley Quinn strips to her underwear in new Suicide Squad trailer unveiled at MTV Movie Awards
Bryan Adams cancels Mississippi concert over new state law allowing businesses to refuse service to gay couples
'My secret project': Bella Hadid strips down to her panties as she offers a sneak peek at mystery shoot on Instagram
Former Emmerdale actress Roxanne Pallett shows off her toned legs in a girly floral dress and mint pea coat for TV appearance
Katie Piper shows off her toned abs as she cosies up to husbandRichard Sutton while relaxing around the pool on their honeymoon in Miami
'The detached leg!' Victoria Beckham photo sparks retouching row as fans debate why part of her upper thigh appears to be 'missing' in Vogue China shoot
A latte style: Lana Del Rey puts on a laid back display in figure-hugging jeans and cute jumper on coffee break
Great balls of fire! Emilia Clarke is red hot in glamorous black gown at Game Of Thrones premiere in Hollywood
BGT sword-swallowing hopeful Alexandr Magala snorts sugar in shocking video clip before posing with shotguns and saucy bare derrire
It's ship shape! Kate Winslet's ex-Cornish holiday home - complete with Titanic-style windows - goes on sale for 400,000
'Boobs are boobs!': Chloe Madeley blasts trolls for criticising extremely busty Instagram snaps following boozy hen do
Vicky Pattison sizzles in busty Instagram snaps... just days after Spencer Matthews revealed how she DUMPED him after their Monaco getaway
Royal couple pay respect to Gandhi in New Delhi ceremony
Prince William and Duchess Kate pay respect to Mahatma Gandhi.
Karate Kid! Blanket Jackson continue his discipline in a traditional black robe and red belt as leaves renowned studio
The Spring Break-ers over! Make-up free Vanessa Hudgens sports retro frizzy curls as she returns to reality with post-holiday shopping trip
They can't teach this dog new tricks: Liam Payne and Cheryl Fernadez-Versini struggle to train the One Direction singer's Great Dane in playful video
PICTURED: Cheryl Fernandez-Versini's estranged husband Jean-Bernard spied wearing his wedding ring 'as he jets into LA for divorce talks'
A sight to Marvel at! Beaming Elizabeth Olsen dazzles in a fitted white blazer at Captain America: Civil War photocall
Can CoverGirl's new mascara REALLY make eyelashes 400 percent longer? FEMAIL puts the fiber-lengthening formula to the test and sees dramatic results
Kanye's biggest fan! Kylie Jenner sports an oversized 'I feel like Pablo' sweater and Yeezy Boost high-tops while out in LA
Tans, drama, and rock 'n' roll! TOWIE's Megan McKenna turns into a sexy rocker in plunging leotard while leading edgy co-stars at punk-themed wrap party
'What makes Dumbledore so fond of you?': Colin Farrell makes first appearance alongside Eddie Redmayne in Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them trailer
Trouble brewing? Lydia Bright pulls a hilarious expression as she and close pal Liam 'Gatsby' Blackwell appear to have a fraught row after filming TOWIE finale
Tamara Ecclestone takes cute daughter Sophia on a girls' getaway to Los Angeles... amid husband Jay Rutland's legal woes
Rita Ora adds sex appeal to her sports gear as she flashes her toned abs in a crop-top and spray-on leggings
'It's like we are still a family, but not a couple': Gwyneth Paltrow admits she is 'better as friends' with ex Chris Martin
'Everything I do is to make her laugh - especially the sex!' Ryan Reynolds makes risque joke about Blake Lively at MTV Movie Awards
Revealed: How Harrison Ford was mistakenly given criminal record for battery after his name was entered by rookie cop during training
'It was brutal!' Former Emmerdale beauty Roxanne Pallett looks unrecognisable after being transformed into an old woman for a social experiment
'Leo got f***ed by a bear!' Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson and Kevin Hart perform profanity laden rap about DiCaprio as they host MTV Movie Awards
From Hollyoaks to Hollywood! Ex-Soap star NathalieEmmanuel shows off her incredible figure in skintight white gown at Game Of Thrones premiere
Style queen! Lena Headey ruffles some red carpet feathers in striking but understated gown at the premiere of Game Of Thrones
From Material Girl to Dangerous Woman! Ariana Grande performs hit single at MTV Movie Awards as she channels her inner Madonna in pink satin gown
The Force is strong with her! Daisy Ridley dons sexy mini-dress as she accepts the gong for Breakthrough Performance at the MTV Movie Awards
Holly Candy's tycoon husband and his brother are ordered not to dispose of their assets as they are sued for 132m and accused of blackmail
'My father would send my stepmother to tell me to lose weight': Jane Fonda, 78, reveals she developed eating disorders after being told to diet as a teen
'There is nothing hotter than a Dangerous woman': Kendall Jenner and Gigi Hadid scintillate as they introduce Ariana Grande at MTV Movie Awards
'Life is very short': Kris Jenner quizzes ex Caitlyn about her dating preferences during tense visit to New Orleans on I Am Cait
Jason Clarke looks rugged as he enjoys casual family day out with his partner Ccile Breccia at farmer's market in LA
I got lines to learn! Kate Winslet wears tight leather mini-dress as she bustles with iPad in hand on set of Collateral Beauty
Kate wows Bollywood with 2,500 Indian designer earrings (after she wore an 8 pair from Accessorize earlier)
The Only Way Is Punk! Kate Wright struggles to contain her chest in sheer top as she joins Georgia Kousoulou and Chloe Lewis at themed TOWIE party
'Why you crying for!' TOWIE'S tearful Georgia Kousoulou has explosive row with boyfriend Tommy Mallet over Jake and Megan cheating rumours
Happy ever after? Danielle Armstrong can barely hide her glee as she holds hands with ex-boyfriend James Lock after filming TOWIE season finale
Blast from the past! Watch a very young and awkward-looking Cate Blanchett show off her vocals in a vintage clip from Australian variety show
Food court-ing attention: Dita von Teese is polished in retro spectacles and red lipstick as she lunches at a mall with a male friend
'Stark in the streets, Wildling in the sheets': Kristen Bell sports large chest tattoo and slogan top at Game Of Thrones premiere with husband Dax Shepard
Home and Away's George Mason frolics shirtless on the beach with his girlfriendManon Buchalet
Caroline Flack 'lands new radio show in 100,000 deal' after denying she had fallen out with Olly Murs over them being axed from The X Factor
Rebel Wilson almost shows off her Down Under while sharing saucy smooch with Adam DeVine as they win the MTV Movie Awards Best Kiss
Falcon's falcon! New clip from Captain America Civil War unveiled at MTV Movie Awards as fans catch first glimpse of Redwing
Nina Dobrev is effortlessly chic in grey fedora teamed with camel suede biker jacket and distressed jeans
War is over! Grinning Rocco, 15, emerges after spending two hours with mum Madonna at her London home in bid to patch up bitter rift
Thank Yeezus! Kanye West makes history as Life Of Pablo tops Billboard chart nearly two months after release with majority of sales via streaming
SPOILER ALERT: Fear The Walking Dead moves action to luxury yacht on open water as Los Angeles burns in zombie apocalypse
'Forever on vacation': Alessandra Ambrosio shares blissful bikini selfie after showing off her toned physique in blue top and leggings during hike with pals
Make-up free Katie Holmes works up a sweat as she runs errands in Los Angeles
Makes her directorial debut next week at the Tribeca Film Festival
Still a Pretty Woman! Evergreen Julia Roberts, 48, shows off her long legs in short denim playsuit
'Neighbours is about reuniting families!' Show producer opens up about Holly Candy's possible return to Ramsay Street to star with sister Olympia
His special lady! Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson brings daughter Simone as his plus-one to the MTV Movie Awards
Seth Rogen beefs up with bodysuit to mock Zac Efron... as the hunky actor apologises to his co-star's testicles in awkward MTV Movie Awards skit
'I don't think this is technically legal!' Anna Kendrick, Zac Efron and Adam DeVine make cringeworthy joke about teen moms at MTV Movie Awards
'Hollywood is my dream': Hollyoaks' Jamie Lomas talks about his ambitions to crack Tinseltown as he poses for sweet shoot with his daughter Polly
'I'm not afraid to be the butt of the joke!' Melissa McCarthy crowd-surfs onstage as she is the first woman to receive MTV's Comedic Genius award
This girl could save Cowell's show - but at what cost to her? Christopher Stevens reviews last night's TV
'You're gorgeous!' Lip kit ace Kylie tries on Caitlyn Jenner's new MAC gloss and it gets the teen's stamp of approval
Simon Cowell 'has banned David Walliams from pressing BGT's golden buzzer to protect the show's credibility'
Bruce Jenner 'came out as transgender to avoid manslaughter charges for killing Kim Howe in Malibu traffic accident' new book alleges
SPOILER ALERT: Lena Dunham causes a car wreck by performing oral sex on her friend in the latest raunchy episode of Girls
Relationship goals! Jessica Alba is given a huge kiss by husband Cash Warren on cosy stroll through Aspen
'This is like a new chapter': Arctic Monkeys rocker Alex Turner admits he's 'excited about his future' with model girlfriend Taylor Bagley
Nicki Minaj's 'boyfriend' Meek Mill gets permission to record tracks while under house arrest... as long as they are free
'I'd feel like I was cheating her': Taylor Swift lookalike Olivia Sturgiss says she won't commit to a paid impersonator gig despite $1m offer
A briefs interlude! True Blood hunk Alexander Skarsgard wins squeals of delight as he appears on stage in his underpants at MTV Movie Awards
Liquid sunshine! Eva Longoria oozes spring-glamour as she shows off her ageless complexion at Deadline event in LA
'My heart breaks': Kim Kardashian pays tribute to American football player Will Smith after he was shot dead and prays for his injured wife and her friend Racquel
No holiday blues? Kanye West flashes a rare smile as he lands in London to promote his new album after family skiing break with Kim, North and Saint
Wigging out! Hailey Baldwin ditches her signature blonde locks and sports a short raven hairpiece in Instagram snapshot
'Game of Thrones doesn't shy away from the reality of those times': Sophie Turner defends rape scene - but remains tight-lipped over Jon Snow's fate
Aisleyne Horgan-Wallace flaunts her ample assets in a series of saucy bikini snaps as she soaks up the sun in Miami
Jennifer Lopez juggles motherhood with her jetset career as she carries her sleepy twins through the airport after fleeting UK visit
'A classic '80s scene!' Fearne Cotton shares a sweet throwback snap of herself as a toddler... and mocks her own mullet
Aishwarya Rai Bachchan stuns in a sleek all-black ensemble as she departs Sydney airport with daughter Aaradhya
'Because of you he'll be smart!' Chris Pratt praises wife Anna Faris for how she raises son while accepting Best Action Performance at MTV Awards
Elton John goes hand-in-hand with husband David Furnish for date night as they step out for the closing show of Billy Elliot The Musical in London's West End
Ecstatic Rita Ora puts on a VERY cosy display with a mystery man as she jumps into his arms during casual day out in LA
The mighty, mighty Boss! Melissa McCarthy vehicle crushes Batman V Superman as it cruises to top of the box office
Watch out! Teen Mom's Jenelle Evans almost spills out of red dress as she stumbles out of car after kissing David Eason at MTV Movie Awards
It's showtime! Iggy Azalea flaunts a hint of cleavage in low-cut black jumpsuit at equestrian tournament
Bikini-clad Sam Faiers looks chilled-out while breastfeeding baby Paul as she continues idyllic family getaway to Dubai
Make-up free Hilary Duff dresses down for mommy duty as she grocery shops with son Luca in LA
Reunited and it feels so good! Ellen Page cuddles with her cute pup while planting sweet smooch on girlfriend Samantha Thomas after arriving at LAX
Britain's got recycled talent: Now BGT and The Voice give second chance to old acts
After a woman brought her dog on BGT for the second year in a ro
Picture perfect! Padma Lakshmi takes the plunge in white top as she steps out in trendy blazer and glam gold bracelet
Carefree Iggy Azalea flashes her engagement ring from Nick Young at Miami Beach Gay Pride Event... after insisting their relationship is 'good' amid scandal
'Super soul Sunday sister sweat session': Khloe Kardashian shares photo where she's working out with Kim and Kourtney on Siblings Day
Cleavage wars! Blac Chyna outdoes pal Amber Rose by wearing VERY low-cut top and flashing massive diamond from Rob Kardashian at pool party
Jacqui Ritchie is glowing as she enjoys low-key stroll with husband Guy and their three kids following sun-soaked Maldives holiday
She's ripped! Brooke Burke turns heads as she shows off toned muscles in backless red dress at the TV Land Icon Awards
'I wanted to die': Orange Is the New Black star Dascha Polanco reveals her career was almost ruined by 17-year-old who 'had an affair with her fiance'
Ex-boyfriend of Bobbi Kristina Nick Gordon returns to Dr Phil more than a year after the show staged a dramatic life-saving intervention
Tom Cruise and Chris Martin's girlfriend Annabelle Wallis put on a cosy display while chatting between takes on The Mummy set
'I think he would be really proud': Helen Mirren's tribute to late actor Alan Rickman as she discusses working alongside him in his final filmEye in the Sky
Bollywood royalty Aishwarya Rai Bachchan looks resplendent in elegant sari as she joins the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge at gala
Jennifer Garner takes her children out in LA as it's revealed she'll be renting a house in London with Ben Affleck as he shoots Justice League
Gwen Stefani looks happy as she heads to church with her three sons... after sharing childhood picture of beau Blake Shelton
The sheer cheek of it! Danielle Armstrong flaunts her ample assets and perky posterior in a VERY racy dress for punk-themed TOWIE finale
Mark Hamill wishes co-star Daisy Ridley a happy 24th birthday by sharing snap of him on her back on Star Wars VIII set, mimicking scene with Yoda
Who's all that for? Liam Hemsworth picks up four takeaway beverages after being spotted enjoying lunch in LA with Miley Cyrus and his family
Must have been a late night! Reese Witherspoon emerges in dark glasses and carrying a coffee after partying in NYC
Gigi Hadid, Kendall Jenner, Charlize Theron and Jessica Chastain take the plunge in low-cut outfits as they sizzle on MTV Movie Awards red carpet
Thigh's the limit! Scantily-clad X Factor USA group Fifth Harmony leave little to the imagination as they put on VERY racy performance at G-A-Y
Trader, 24, killed himself by jumping onto roof of speeding train and falling to his death after he failed job interview
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
