Librarians and privacy advocates ally to condemn cybersecurity bill | US news | The Guardian
Librarians and privacy advocates ally to condemn cybersecurity bill
American Library Association and civil liberties groups warn of abusive government spying and urge lawmakers to oppose Frankenstein version of Cisa
House speaker Paul Ryan is attempting to reconcile two cybersecurity bills, including the much-maligned Cisa, for passage in Congress.
Last modified on Wednesday 9 December 2015 11.16EST
US librarians have joined with a host of civil liberties groups to condemn a cybersecurity bill now passing through Congress they claim will be both unhelpful and dangerous to Americans civil liberties.
The American Library Association, the worlds oldest and largest library affiliation, has joined with 18 other groups including Fight for the Future, Demand Progress and FreedomWorks to issue a letter to the White House and Congress urging lawmakers to oppose the final version of a bill they claim will dramatically expand government surveillance while failing to tackle cyber-attacks.
Politicians from both sides of the House have been pushing for stronger cybersecurity measures in the wake of the Paris attacks and the recent San Bernardino shooting.
Republican House speaker Paul Ryan has been leading the charge to push through legislation and reconcile two bills, the Protecting Cyber Networks Act (PCNA) and the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement with the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (Cisa), a controversial bill that passed a Senate vote in October.
The speed with which Ryan is trying to push through a compromise has worried privacy activists. Weve just learned that the Intelligence Committees are trying to pull a fast one, Nathan White, senior legislative manager at digital rights advocate Access, said in a recent email to supporters. Theyve been negotiating in secret and came up with a Frankenstein bill  that has some of the worst parts from both the House and the Senate versions.
According to the letters signatories, the proposed conference legislation would:
 Create a loophole that would allow the president to remove the Department of Homeland Security, a civilian agency, as the lead government entity managing information sharing.
 Reduce privacy protections for Americans personal information.
 Overexpand the term cyber threat to facilitate the prosecution of crimes unrelated to cybersecurity.
 Expand already broad liability protection for information disclosure.
 Pre-empt state, local or tribal disclosure laws on any cyber-threat information shared by or with a state, tribal or local government.
Moreover, they argue, the legislation would dramatically expand the amount of sensitive information held by government agencies with dismal records on data security and institute blind, automatic transfer of personal information to intelligence agencies, including the National Security Agency, that would be authorized to use the information for non-cybersecurity purposes.
The final version of this bill is an insult to the public and puts all of us in greater danger of cyber-attacks and government surveillance, said Evan Greer, campaign director of Fight for the Future, who organized the letter. This was already a fundamentally flawed piece of legislation, and now even the meager privacy protections it provided have been gutted, exposing it for what it really is: a bill to dramatically expand abusive government spying.
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
