What Made New York New York? Henry Hudson, George Washington and a Silver Subway Shovel - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Art & Design|What Made New York New York? Henry Hudson, George Washington and a Silver Subway Shovel
What Made New York New York? Henry Hudson, George Washington and a Silver Subway Shovel
Badges issued to Robert Moses, declaring him Chairman, Triborough Bridge Authority, Commissioner, Department of Parks, City of New York and President, Long Island State Park Commission, from 1924 to 1960.
WHAT better artifact to feature in an exhibition called New York at Its Core than a metal contraption designed to remove the pits from an apple.
A field drafting set owned by Calvert Vaux, who designed Central Park with Frederick Law Olmsted. The leather case, from around 1865, includes a pencil and wooden burnisher.
The object is among 400 being readied by the Museum of the City of New York for its first permanent exhibition, a 6,600-square-foot display ambitiously intended to evoke the very essence of the metropolis that has been known as the Big Apple (pits and all) since the horse-racing writer John J. Fitz Gerald popularized that nickname in The New York Morning Telegraph 95 years ago.
Daughters and sons of liberty in the American colonies boycotted tea, heavily taxed by the British, and turned to coffee and other drinks as an act of patriotism. This silver coffeepot, from around 1770, was made by Myer Myers of New York.
The museum is devoting its entire first floor to demonstrating how money, density, diversity and creativity have distinguished the city from other North American colonies since the earliest European settlers arrived four centuries ago and began what was then New Amsterdam as, in effect, a for-profit company.
A silver hand cartmans license issued to George Hurst, from 1825.
People expect, and we should deliver to them, the full scope of New York City history, said Sarah Henry, the museums chief curator. Its inherent in our name and incumbent upon us as a museum to provide that.
An enamel snuff box engraved, To Evert Bancker, a Son of Liberty, from around 1765.
The permanent exhibition, opening in November, is intended as a springboard to temporary displays, which will be shown on the upper floors of the museums neo-Georgian red brick and white marble building facing Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street.
Bling at Tammany Hall: Boss Tweeds diamond, onyx and gold cuff links, from around 1868.
The museum was founded in Gracie Mansion, now the mayors official residence, nearly a century ago, in 1923, by Henry Collins Brown, a Scottish-born advertising salesman and journalist, as the city approached its tricentennial.
A rendering of the Port City section of the exhibition New York at Its Core, opening at the Museum of the City of New York in November.
Studio Joseph, Michael Bierut, Pentagram and Local Projects
For its new home, the museum honored the citys role in the nations founding: It laid the cornerstone for the Fifth Avenue building in 1929, on the 140th anniversary of George Washingtons inauguration in New York, and opened its doors in 1932, on what was then promoted as the 174th anniversary of Alexander Hamiltons birth.
A rendering of the World City section of the exhibition New York at Its Core, opening at the Museum of the City of New York in November.
Studio Joseph, Michael Bierut, Pentagram and Local Projects
The $10 million exhibition caps a 10-year, $97 million renovation and expansion overseen by Susan Henshaw Jones, who retired late last year as the museums director. The project was recently inherited by her successor, Whitney W. Donhauser.
A 1978 guest list for the New York nightclub Studio 54 that includes Liberace and Ringo Starr.
An exhibit of this scope  three full galleries devoted to New York Citys past, present and future  doesnt exist anywhere else in the city, Ms. Donhauser said.
A 1955 baseball signed by the Brooklyn Dodgers, including Jackie Robinson, Roy Campanella, Johnny Podres, Gil Hodges, Duke Snider and Carl Furillo.
New York at Its Core is divided into sections: Port City, from 1609, when Henry Hudson arrived, to 1898, when the five boroughs consolidated to form Greater New York; World City, from 1898 to 2012; and Future City Lab.
A sterling silver ceremonial shovel from the groundbreaking of the first New York City subway line, in 1900.
In each section, visitors will receive a primer on the four themes that curators sliced from the Big Apple: money (the impact of the marketplace and efforts to tame its excesses); density (the challenges it posed and the opportunities it presented); diversity (the varying responses to a diverse population, from outright conflict to relative tolerance to a measure of indifference); and creativity (how this potent blend of forces fostered innovation).Visitors can explore digital and video images, compare historical and contemporary vistas and consider the impact of individual personalities (David Rockefellers vision to revitalize Lower Manhattan) and policies (how population sprouted along new subway routes).New York at Its Core was conceived and executed with a team of historical advisers and organized by Dr. Henry; Hilary Ballon, an architectural historian at New York University; and Steven H. Jaffe, a writer and historian. It is being designed by Studio Joseph, Local Projects and Pentagram.
Among the artifacts borrowed or culled from the museums collection of 750,000 (including its popular doll houses and fire engines) are a Lenape war club, a cross-section of a wooden water pipe from Aaron Burrs Manhattan Company (whose covert purpose was to create a bank), Milton Glasers original graphic for the I  NY campaign, a grim Welcome to Fear City leaflet distributed to tourists by the disgruntled police union in the 1970s, a ceremonial Tiffany silver shovel used to break ground for the I.R.T. subway, Calvert Vauxs drafting kit (he and his partner, Frederick Law Olmsted, designed Central Park) and a handwritten list of guests to be admitted free to Studio 54 (including Ringo Starr and Liberace).The last gallery engages visitors in imagining the future city by posing a series of what ifs that invite speculation about issues like the impact of a subway to Staten Island, climate change and suspending alternate-side parking not just on the two dozen religious holidays already recognized but on every one.Museumgoers can design their own street, building or park and respond to other New Yorkers mouthing off, courtesy of Neil Goldberg, a video artist.Our history was not inevitable, but a variety of reasons converged to produce what it is that makes New York New York, Dr. Henry said. It didnt have to turn out this way.The futures not fixed, she added. It wasnt fixed in 1609, either.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page C19 of the New York edition with the headline: What Makes Up the Citys DNA.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
