Apple and U.S. Bitterly Turn Up Volume in iPhone Privacy Fight - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Technology|Apple and U.S. Bitterly Turn Up Volume in iPhone Privacy Fight
Apple and U.S. Bitterly Turn Up Volume in iPhone Privacy Fight
The Apple store at Grand Central Terminal in New York.
WASHINGTON  The Obama administration argued on Thursday that no single corporation  even one as successful as Apple  should be allowed to flout the rule of law by refusing to help the F.B.I. unlock the iPhone used by one of the San Bernardino, Calif., attackers.The administrations sharp tone in a new court filing drew an angry and emotional rebuke from lawyers for Apple, who accused the government of a cheap shot and were particularly upset about what they said was an unfair and inaccurate suggestion that the company has a special relationship with China to protect its corporate interests there.The tone of the brief reads like an indictment, Bruce Sewell, Apples general counsel, told reporters. In 30 years of practice, I dont think Ive ever seen a legal brief that was more intended to smear the other side with false accusations and innuendo.The unusually intense sparring between the two sides signaled an escalation in tension over a case that had already drawn attention worldwide because of the high legal and corporate stakes. The fight has been brewing since mid-February, when Magistrate Judge Sheri Pym of the Federal District Court for the Central District of California ordered Apple to create and deploy an alternative operating system that would help law enforcement agents break into the iPhone in the San Bernardino case.Apple publicly opposed the order, igniting a standoff with the F.B.I. and the Justice Department. The fight has fueled a debate over privacy and civil liberties versus security, becoming a flash point in the growing tension between technology companies and the government over who can have access to private customer data and under what circumstances.
In its filing on Thursday in United States District Court in Los Angeles, the Justice Department said that Apple should be compelled to help the F.B.I. break into the iPhone and that the company should not be allowed to hide behind what prosecutors said were diversionary tactics in the court of public opinion.Apple and its supporters try to alarm the court by invoking bigger debates over privacy and national security, the Justice Department said. Apple desperately wants  desperately needs  this case not to be about one isolated iPhone. The governments filing was a point-by-point rebuttal of a motion that Apple filed two weeks ago opposing the federal court order requiring it to break into the iPhone used by Syed Rizwan Farook, one of the San Bernardino attackers. Apple had argued that the court order violated the companys First and Fifth Amendment rights, and said the governments request oversteps a law called the All Writs Act.In the filing on Thursday, prosecutors argued that they have sought a modest step in the case and that the courts, the executive branch and Congress  not Apple  share the power to decide how best to balance public safety and privacy.The rule of law does not repose that power in a single corporation, no matter how successful it has been in selling its products, prosecutors wrote.
Breaking Down Apples iPhone Fight With the U.S. Government
The technology company has been locked in a major legal battle against law enforcement officials over privacy and security.
The Justice Department also offered a robust defense of the All Writs Act, which dates to 1789. The statute, used to gather evidence in thousands of cases, is an integral part of our justice system, prosecutors wrote.Apple has tried to characterize that statute as an obscure law dredged up by the government to achieve unprecedented power, the Justice Department said. That premise is false.At the same time, prosecutors played down the significance of a ruling that went against them last week in a separate but similar case in a Brooklyn courtroom. In that case, a magistrate rejected attempts by the Justice Department to force Apple to help unlock an iPhone in a routine drug case, saying that the government was using the All Writs Act so broadly that it might be unconstitutional.
The Justice Department noted in a footnote Thursday that it was appealing the Brooklyn ruling and that the order carried no weight as precedent in the California case.In another footnote, the Justice Departments tone also turned more ominous, suggesting that it might seek access to Apples source code and private electronic signatures if the company does not cooperate. That would go beyond what the government has previously requested, which is the companys help in weakening the iPhones defenses rather than any direct access to the technology.In a rebuttal to the governments filing, Mr. Sewell of Apple said in a conference call that a number of the governments charges in its latest brief were unfounded.Mr. Sewell said it was the first time ever that Apple had seen the government assert that it made modifications to specifically block law enforcement officials access to its devices. More disturbingly, he said, federal prosecutors used unidentified sources to raise the specter that Apple has a different relationship with China than with other countries.He said such accusations showed that the Justice Department is so desperate at this point that it has thrown all decorum to the winds.Mr. Sewell likened the Justice Departments comments on China to Apple arguing that the F.B.I. cannot be trusted because there are rumors that the bureau was behind the assassination of John F. Kennedy and citing conspiracytheory.com as its source.Everyone should beware, Mr. Sewell said, because it seems that disagreeing with the Department of Justice means you must be evil and un-American.On the actual merits of the dispute, Apples lawyers reiterated that the governments interpretation of the All Writs Act was simply wrong and that the authority the government seeks is breathtaking, essentially arguing that courts can order any private citizens or companies to do what the authorities want so long as there is jurisdiction.Apple will have another chance to rebut the Justice Departments case before a hearing scheduled for March 22 before Magistrate Judge Pym. No matter how she rules, the closely watched case is almost certain to be appealed to the district court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, and perhaps even the Supreme Court.
Eric Lichtblau reported from Washington and Katie Benner from San Francisco.
A version of this article appears in print on March 11, 2016, on page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Apples Fight With U.S. Turns Up the Volume.
F.B.I. Lawyer Wont Say if Data From Unlocked iPhone Is Useful
F.B.I. Clash With Apple Loosed a Torrent of Possible Ways to Hack an iPhone
Apple Policy on Bugs May Explain Why Hackers Would Help F.B.I.
U.S. Says It May Not Need Apples Help to Unlock iPhone
Justice Dept. Appeals Ruling in Apple iPhone Case in Brooklyn
Supreme Court Declines to Hear Apples Appeal in E-Book Pricing Case
Apple Is Rolling Up Backers in iPhone Privacy Fight Against F.B.I.
Justice Dept. Appeals Ruling in Apple iPhone Case in Brooklyn
Supreme Court Declines to Hear Apples Appeal in E-Book Pricing Case
Apple Is Rolling Up Backers in iPhone Privacy Fight Against F.B.I.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
