Three Days at Baselworld, the Worlds Biggest Watch Fair - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Mens Style|Three Days at Baselworld, the Worlds Biggest Watch Fair
Three Days at Baselworld, the Worlds Biggest Watch Fair
An Omega representative presenting the companys newest watch collection in March at Baselworlds 2016 edition of the Watch and Jewellery Show in Basel, Switzerland.
Day 1, March 17Im still only in Basel, Switzerland.Im lying shirtless on a mattress, slack-jawed from jet lag, in an Airbnb in the countrys north, feeling like Martin Sheens Captain Willard at the beginning of Apocalypse Now. Ive got my mission from command back in New York: Travel upriver  the Rhine  and infiltrate Baselworlds 2016 edition of the Watch and Jewellery Show, the worlds marquee watch fair.My orders are to rendezvous with dozens of brand representatives in a series of product presentations. I will spend hour after hour donning faux-silk gloves and huddling with watch company publicists in windowless rooms, throwing back free espressos while I inspect hundreds of the splashiest wristwatches of 2016.Its a journey into the heart of darkness. I will spend 72 hours, moving stealthily among armies of watch journalists (some 4,000), watch executives (representing hundreds of brands), watch publicists, watch obsessives and watch celebrities. (Yes, they exist.) Each time I look around, the walls move in a little tighter.
9 a.m. I strap on my service-issue Rolex Submariner and head for the Basel city tram.9:20 a.m. The tram chugs in front of the Messe Basel New Hall. With its facade of glass and shimmering aluminum, it looks like two Frank Gehry museums stacked on top of each other. Strolling through the concourse, I glimpse the booths of countless watch brands  Bulgari, TAG Heuer, Zenith  endlessly repeating, M.C. Escher-style. Imagine the Mall of America, if every store were a watch store.10 a.m. Stop by Chanel. With a furtive air and old Times Square tout, a young French publicist in black leather pants leads me to a darkened room that calls to mind an upscale peep show. A film rolls, trumpeting the news that this storied Parisian atelier is making a bold move into watches for men with a stunner called the Monsieur de Chanel. This is no fashion house licensed knockoff. It is candy for watch snobs, featuring a jumping hour, retrograde, three-day power reserve and in-house movement. If any of that makes sense, youre in too deep already.
3 p.m. At Baselworld, the Swiss brands dominate like frat boys at Cocoa Beach during spring break. Few dominate like Tissot, a Swatch Group brand that claims to account for one of every four Swiss watches sold. (Who knew?) Its big news this year is the $1,150 Smart-Touch, a solar model that can last a year on a single charge, even in complete darkness. Al Gore would approve.
The Smart-Touch shows how far weve come. At last years Baselworld, the month before the debut of the Apple Watch, everyone was buzzing about whether Cupertinos wrist computer would devastate the industry. By now, countless brands  Casio, Movado, TAG Heuer and Frederique Constant  have decided its better to join the smartwatch revolution than to fight it.4 p.m. The spirit of compromise, however, is distinctly absent at Hublot, a brand about as understated as a Lamborghini Huracn. Take the new Big Bang Unico Sapphire. With its entirely clear case, the $57,900 behemoth might be mistaken for a Casio G-Shock, except that it is tooled from a solid block of sapphire. Its Fitzgeralds Diamond as Big as the Ritz, but for the wrist.At Hublots moodily chic V.I.P. lounge, with a full bar, black walls and track lighting (it looks like a SoHo nightclub from the Sade years), I catch a news conference starring Lapo Elkann, the comically sauve Fiat heir and Italia Independent eyewear designer, who arrived via private jet and Ferrari to pump his latest collaboration with Hublot, a limited-edition camo Big Bang. Afterward, he settles into a black leather chair to discuss the wobbly watch market of late. For my company, crisis is an opportunity, he said. We never stop innovating. We never stop cross-contaminating.
A watchmaker performs the delicate task of assembling a watch.
Afterward, we pose for a photograph. Wearing a custom tan suit with jet-wing lapels, Mr. Elkann, 38, slips a pair of shades over his sun-tanned face, and purses his lips in a cover-boy pout. No, I havent wandered into A Night at the Roxbury, as directed by Federico Fellini.4:35 p.m. Entering the Patek Philippe presentation, I feel as if Ive been invited to brunch at Claridges by Prince William and Princess Kate. Even by lofty Baselworld standards, Patek is an aristocrat. Its big introduction this year is the exquisite 5930, which combines a world timer and a 30-minute chronograph, for the low, low price of $73,700. Its the first watch Ill buy when I sign with the Knicks.5 p.m. Compared with Hublot, my visit to the watch behemoth Omega seems almost terrestrial, although thats a strained metaphor, given that this company is famous for the Speedmaster Moonwatch Chronograph, which the Apollo 11 astronauts took into space (winding it manually every day).
Its easy to think of Omega as the Pepsi to Rolexs Coke. But thats hardly a bad thing. Pepsi is supposed to be young and cool, right? So, too, is Omega, apparently, which sexied up its Speedmaster this year with a Grey Side of the Moon Meteorite model featuring a dial shaved from the actual Gibeon meteorite. I know, you thought the moon was all gray.
6:25 p.m. The day is hardly done. I board a shuttle to Reithalle Wenkenhof, an 18th-century country estate, to attend a Rolex cocktail party with several style editors wearing Euro-chic suits as tight as sausage casings.8:40 p.m. Under opulent chandeliers, guests eat sushi and drink Chateau Sociando-Mallet Bordeaux 2011. The party feels like a viscounts wedding. The room is anything but crowded, but thats by design. Rolex does not beg for attention. You beg for its attention. I joke to a senior executive that the companys next marketing slogan should be, We Dare You Not to Buy One. Im not sure she laughed. But Im pretty sure she got it.
A watch by Hamilton Watch Company under inspection.
Day 2, March 1812:45 p.m. At the Rolex presentation, inside a booth that seems like a W hotel with its streamlined earth tones, I settle into a table full of fashion editors. Seemingly, half of them have to place their personal Rolexes on the table to try on the new Rolexes. There is an air of retro chic as a publicist in pearls passes around subtly updated versions of its Cosmograph Daytona, Explorer and Air-King, a model that dates from the 1950s that I assumed had gone the way of tail fins.Its obvious from the oohs that the new Daytona, with a techy Cerachrom (ceramic) bezel, is going to be a hit. But since Rolex is not going to make a ton of them, and I want to buy one before you can, Ill say no more.2:30 p.m. Breitling unveils the Avenger Hurricane, which somehow seems as weightless as a red velvet macaron, despite its Mr. Universe-size 50-mm case, thanks to its proprietary Breitlight (polymer composite) case. The Breitling booth features a giant aquarium filled with 650 jelly blubber jellyfish. They had the same aquarium last year. Where do those jellyfish summer?
6:10 p.m. In terms of Baselworld night life, all roads lead to the Les Trois Rois, the opulent hotel on the banks of the Rhine that functions as the fairs social hub. I drop into a Movado cocktail party there, hoping to see at least a few Baselworld celebrities. Hey, theres Alan Alda! False alarm. Its his doppelgnger, Joe Thompson, the longtime WatchTime editor, drinking a flute of Mot. Continue reading the main story
A Baselworld veteran of 37 years, Mr. Thompson echoes the observation about this years lighter traffic. China is reeling, he said, the plunge in oil prices having torpedoed the Russian and Middle Eastern markets. And the United States of Trump? Well, its anyones guess. Its the perfect storm, he said.7:10 p.m. The two of us await the arrival of Kerry Washington, a Movado ambassador, whose flight was delayed four hours. A publicist offers to slip me into the V.I.P. area to meet her. Im tempted, but Ive never seen Scandal. What would we talk about?
While an appearance by the April cover model for Elle is big new for publicists, watch nerds have a different definition of celebrity. Benjamin Clymer, the unassuming 33-year-old founder of the influential watch site Hodinkee, can scarcely move through a room without being buttonholed by supplicants seeking audience. Hes Anna Wintour, a fashion journalist said.
10:10 p.m.After a demure Patek Philippe dinner at the hotels brasserie, Mr. Clymer and I head over to the bar at Les Trois Rois, which is quickly turning into a Studio 54 of watch geekdom.In one corner of the smoking tent outside the bar, Jacob Arabo (you know him as Jacob the Jeweler from songs by Kanye and Jay Z) huddles with a Jacob & Company colleague playing backgammon, clutching a fat cigar and flashing his Astronomia Tourbillon Baguette, a domed terrarium of diamonds that, in customary Jacob the Jeweler understatement, is meant to represent the universe.
11:15 p.m. Still at Les Trois Rois. I run into Eric Singer, the drummer for Kiss, whose watch collection numbers about 200. He discusses the wobbly economy for luxury goods. When people see the stock market fluctuate, they get alligator arms, he said. Their arms get short. They cant reach their pockets.Without the greasepaint, he does not look much like a cat.12:30 a.m. Hoping to catch a glimpse of misbehaving watch executives, I organize a field trip to Acqua, Basels closest equivalent to a Las Vegas nightclub. At my urging, most of the staff of Hodinkee follows. What happens in Basel stays in Basel.Acqua is mobbed, like Marquee-in-its-prime mobbed. As we suck in our chests and elbow our way toward the dance floor, we lose two Hodinkee staff members. Its a war of attrition. Im glad Im happily married and dont have to play the Hey, baby, ever get lucky with a watch journalist? card.
Get lifestyle news from the Style, Travel and Food sections, from the latest trends to news you can use.
1:20 a.m. Im not seeing too many watch executives, unless they are very young ones. The music throbs. It is late. This may go down as one of the most epic nights in Hodinkee staff history. Or maybe one of the worst nights.Day 3, March 1910:30 a.m. My final day at the fair. Seiko flashes a special-edition PADI SRPA21 diver watch that looks to be straight from the 1960s, with its famed turtle case. Entourage fans should be thrilled.
1 p.m. Tudor is nailing it with eye-catching reinterpretations of its Heritage Black Bay dive watch, including a Bronze model that will develop a patina, and the black-on-black Dark, which would make a perfect graduation gift for Darth Vaders son.3:35 p.m. Im starting to see double: I run into Wei Koh, the dandyish young founder of the watch magazine Revolution. He has a vintage Paul Newman Daytona on one wrist and a Bulgari Octo Finissimo on the other. You can only do this at Baselworld, he said. Otherwise you look insane.4 p.m. Citizen is a surprise hit of the fair, riffing on its groundbreaking solar watches of the 70s with the Citizen Eco-Drive One, a solar watch that, at 2.98 mm, feels only slightly thicker than a communion wafer. The Gen Xer in me is tempted to call it Ginsu-thin.6:30 p.m. I board a bus for the Breitling party. It is a guaranteed rager.6:50 p.m. The bus pulls up to a large warehouse on the Swiss border, and guests ride a freight elevator that opens to a room tricked out like a South Seas paradise. I think those dancers in loincloths are supposed to be medicine men.In another room, a row of male executives elbows up to a tennis-court-size rink, where leggy female models in shorts and shoulder pads flounce around squealing, pretending to play football. Just as one is tempted to cite Andrea Dworkin, the female models are replaced by hunky male models. A different row of executives moves rinkside, replacing the first. Its like a second line in hockey.The next room is made up like a boxing gym, featuring an actual middleweight bout. A guy seated ringside slurps a dollop of caviar off the back of his hand. The excess would make Don King blush.10:50 p.m. The partys finale is a rock concert in a vaulted hall with a glass ceiling. A Seal look-alike in leather pants belts out covers of David Bowie and Prince that seem to rattle the ice in the free cocktails.The world economy is wobbling. Luxury is at a crossroads. But that does not appear to be crimping marketing budgets.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page D14 of the New York edition with the headline: I Wanted a Mission.
A detailed look at watches  luxury, sport, vintage -- and trends in the watch industry.
Why a $15,950 Tourbillon Watch Is Considered a Steal
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
