Egon Schiele Works to Be Returned to Descendant of Holocaust Victim - The New York Times
Egon Schiele Works to Be Returned to Descendant of Holocaust Victim
Egon Schiele Works to Be Returned to Descendant of Holocaust Victim
PhotoThe Austrian culture minister, Josef Ostermayer, and Elisabeth Leopold, widow of art collector Rudolf Leopold, with works by Egon Schiele at the Leopold Museum in Vienna.Credit Joe Klamar/Agence France-Presse  Getty Images
Two works by the Austrian painter Egon Schiele will be returned to a descendant of the paintings former owner, Karl Maylnder, a Jewish collector who was deported from Austria and killed during the Holocaust.
The restitution was announced on Thursday by the Austrian culture minister, Josef Ostermayer, at a news conference at the Leopold Museum in Vienna, which owns the works.
In 2010 a government commission recommended that the Leopold give five Schiele watercolors from its collection to one of Mr. Maylnders heirs. The museum was able to ignore the ruling because it is not primarily state-funded. The deal brokered by the Austrian culture ministry with the museum will allow three of the artworks named by the commission to remain in the museums collection.
In January of this year the Israelitische Kultusgemeinde Wien, a religious advocacy group that was involved in the case, began what their website refers to as a P.R. offensive to force the question of the paintings restitution forward.
The museum has been involved in restitution cases before: In 2010 the Leopold agreed to pay $19 million to the descendants of Lea Bondi Jaray, a midcentury Jewish gallerist whose Schiele painting Portrait of Wally was seized by the Nazis and later entered the Leopolds collection. The museum was allowed to keep the painting as part of the settlement.
In a statement provided by a spokesman, the Leopold director, Hans-Peter Wipplinger, said a central task of the museum was to confront the past and remember the atrocities of the Nazi regime.
Arts and Antiquities Looting, Holocaust and the Nazi Era, Leopold Museum, Museums, Schiele, Egon, Vienna (Austria)
Cairo Gallery Forced to Shut After Building Collapse
ArtsBeat is a website devoted to culture news and reviews, and to the work and interests of the reporters and critics of The Timess culture department and the Book Review. Come here for breaking stories about the arts, coverage of live events, interviews with leading cultural figures, critical reviews, multimedia extravaganzas and much more.
'Better Call Saul''Blindspot''Boardwalk Empire''Broadchurch''Downton Abbey''Empire''Fargo''Fear the Walking Dead''Game of Thrones''Girls''Gotham''Halt and Catch Fire''Hannibal''Homeland''House of Cards''I Am Cait''Justified''Mad Men''Masters of Sex''Narcos'
'Orange Is the New Black''Orphan Black''Outlander''Penny Dreadful''Poldark''Scream Queens''Silicon Valley''Sleepy Hollow''The Affair''The Americans''The Good Wife''The Knick''The Leftovers''The Newsroom''The Walking Dead''True Blood''True Detective''Veep''Wolf Hall'
Annenberg Grants to Aid a Range of Emerging Artists
A violinist, actors and a dancer are among the recipients of grants from the Leonore Annenberg Fellowship Fund for the Performing and Visual Arts.Readmore
Chris Jackson to Lead One World Imprint at Random House
Mr. Jackson, who has been an executive editor at Spiegel & Grau, will officially restart the One World imprint in fall 2017.Readmore
Kanye Wests Life of Pablo Is No. 1 on Billboard Chart After a Wild Ride
Kanye West put his album on the streaming service Tidal months ago but it was finally released widely on April 1; in its first seven days, it had 99.5 million streams.Readmore
The Winter Garden at Brookfield Place in Lower Manhattan has decided to stop hosting the annual Bang on a Can new-music marathon.Readmore
The Modern Contemporary Museum, or Moco, opens to the public on Saturday with a show of works by Banksy and Andy Warhol.Readmore
