Surveillance Flights, In Their Spare Time - NYTimes.com
campaign: nyt2016_bar1_digihd_BAU_mtr_msg_64RWJ -- 283467, creative: bar1_digihd_BAU_mtr_64RWJ_64RWL_64RXF_64RXJ -- 413062, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Bar1
Want both newspaper deliveryand free, unlimited digital access?50% OFF FOR 12 WEEKS
Want unlimited access to NYTimes.com and our apps?99 FOR 4 WEEKSSee All SubscriptionsSubscribe
HOMELAND SECURITY; Surveillance Flights, In Their Spare Time
ON a recent Saturday morning, as most of the county slept, a group of about two dozen people in flight suits and combat fatigues filed into a nondescript structure at Westchester County Airport known as Building No.1.
At the front of the room stood Capt. Paul Ghiron of the Civil Air Patrol, a stocky man with a no-nonsense bearing and an urgent mission for the assembled group: a charter plane transporting a high-profile prisoner from Burlington, Vt., to La Guardia Airport had crashed somewhere, he said, and the local chapter of the air patrol, the all-volunteer civilian auxiliary of the Air Force, was assigned to search for wreckage and signs of life from New York City north to Kingston.
Everything went well until midmorning, when word came that a Civil Air Patrol Cessna 172 airplane flying in from Poughkeepsie to take part in the search had made an unscheduled stop at Sky Acres Airport near Millbrook.
First attempts to make radio contact failed, and no one was quite sure what had happened until the plane landed safely and Second Lt. Patricia Scully, 72, explained the detour:
In the end, no one seemed all that concerned. The March 19 search for the downed charter plane was really only a training exercise.
The Civil Air Patrol inspires the likes of Lieutenant Scully, a home health aide with a penchant for motorcycles and sky diving, to volunteer countless hours for search-and-rescue missions and low-level homeland security tasks.
But at the same time, its reliance on volunteers like the lieutenant places time constraints and other limits on its performance -- which is why New York City's Department of Environmental Protection is no longer sending it to patrol the vast New York watershed areas considered vulnerable since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
The air patrol's first three-year contract to conduct the watershed flights was signed in 1999, in a more relaxed era; the arrangement was renewed amid greater urgency in April 2002. Ian Michaels, a Department of Environmental Protection spokesman, said the agency decided to sever ties with the group in the midst of its second three-year contract because officials had found it difficult to get the patrol's volunteer pilots to fly regular missions.
Marc Yaggi, senior attorney with Garrison-based Riverkeeper, an environmental group long critical of security around the watershed, said the decision to drop Civil Air Patrol flights raised questions about the integrity of the watershed, a 2,000-square-mile, multi-county network of reservoirs and aqueducts supplying more than nine million residents of New York City and Westchester.
He said that the Department of Environmental Protection has just one helicopter of its own for aerial surveillance, and much of the watershed is inaccessible by boat or vehicle.
Mr. Michaels, noting that the department gets help from county and state-police aircraft, called surveillance adequate .
Air patrol officials decline to speculate on whether security has deteriorated since their pilots stopped their flights -- however sporadic. They maintain that the patrol hopes to win a new contract, and a larger homeland security role, by trying harder to become more professional.
But how to mesh professionalism with a volunteer ethos that has been a source of pride ever since the group was founded, just before the bombing of Pearl Harbor in 1941?
The question is particularly pressing for the 285-member southeast New York chapter of the Civil Air Patrol, which covers Westchester, Putnam and Dutchess Counties, said First Lt. Steve Lord, the public affairs officer for the unit, who lost a friend in the World Trade Center attack.
''If we're flying over Manhattan and I'm looking down at ground zero, I know someone who's still down there,'' said Lieutenant Lord, a vice president at a financial research firm. ''Most of us have very personal reasons for making sure nothing like that happens again.''
That kind of emotional response is what led to a sharp spike in membership locally and nationwide in the months after the attacks, Civil Air Patrol officials say, with the number of volunteers jumping 11 percent in New York State and across the country from September 2001 to July 2003.
Membership, which hit 64,725 nationwide and 2,685 in New York State, has since receded to pre-Sept. 11, 2001, levels, as often happens after crises wane. But the patrol has taken on security tasks nonetheless.
The first was the day after the attacks, when a Civil Air Patrol plane out of Long Island snapped pictures of the World Trade Center site for use by the New York State Emergency Management Office. Months later, flight crews provided surveillance of the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City.
More recently, patrol planes have served as training targets for Air Force pilots learning to intercept small aircraft, and crews have photographed terrorist targets all over the country -- including some undisclosed sites in Westchester.
The group also provides leadership and aerospace education for its teenage members, or ''cadets,'' and performs 95 percent of the inland search-and-rescue missions doled out by the Air Force -- tracking lost hikers and downed airplanes and saving roughly 100 lives a year, according to Melani LeMay, public relations manager for the patrol.
The work, combined with the thrill of donning a military uniform and the opportunity to fly on government time, keeps volunteers like Lieutenant Scully returning to places like Building No.1 for hours of training.
And on that recent Saturday -- cloudless, cool and perfect for flying -- patrol flight crews had little trouble finding the colored tarps and tinfoil laid out at Muscoot Farm in Somers to mimic wreckage, even if they required a pit stop or two along the way.
Photos: Lt. Col. Leslie Mendez of the Civil Air Patrol flying a mission over Westchester County. Members of the air patrol attending a meeting in White Plains. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)
Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers.
New York Citys top public schools must become more diverse.
campaign: nyt2014_edu_propensity_cookie_dropper -- 256873, creative: nyt2015_edu_personalized_isEDU_cookie_dropper -- 401071, page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/archives, targetedPage: www.nytimes.com/archive/article, position: Inv1
