The Achilles Heel of Too Many Golfers: A Bad Back - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Golf|The Achilles Heel of Too Many Golfers: A Bad Back
Phil Mickelson, above, at the Masters, says a long swing with passive wrists and light grip pressure can prevent back issues.
In his 24th Masters, Phil Mickelson is an evangelist spreading the gospel according to Ernest Jones, whose 1937 book, Swing the Clubhead Method, is Mickelsons sacred text. He teed off Thursday at Augusta National Golf Club with a fourth green jacket in his sights and a message to spread about longevity in the sport.At 45, Mickelson has played without any of the serious back pain that has plagued golfers nearly half his age, including the major champions Rory McIlroy, 26, and Jason Day, 28. Back injuries sidelined the former champions Tiger Woods, 40, and Fred Couples, 56, from this years tournament.Not even the Augusta National chairman, Billy Payne, is immune. Payne, 68, has had multiple back injuries, most recently in November, and said he was hoping to return to the course in June.Day, the reigning P.G.A. Championship winner, has dealt with back problems since he was 13, he said.You can walk up the range here and ask how many players have back problems, and probably a good percentage of them do, he said, adding, Ive just got to keep on top of what I need to do to keep myself strong and fit and ready to go play tournaments, and then hopefully over time strengthening it each and every year.
McIlroy, a four-time major champion who can complete a career Grand Slam with a victory in the Masters, said back problems as a 19-year-old prompted him to commit to the gym regimen that has turned him into one of the fittest players on the PGA and European Tours.I realized that this isnt going to get any better unless I start to take care of myself better, McIlroy said.
Tiger Woods carefully removed his ball from the cup after injuring his back in 2013 at the Barclays at Liberty National in Jersey City.
A bad back has compromised the career of Louis Oosthuizen, the 2010 British Open champion and 2012 Masters runner-up. One of his preventive measures is to travel with his own mattress, one not too firm or too soft. He pays to have it transported in an equipment van that travels from tournament to tournament.I have a bit of history with lower back, so, yeah, I thought, Why not? said Oosthuizen, who finished his first round at even-par 72.Oosthuizen said he had not had any issues with his back since he began traveling with a mattress of the same firmness.Jack Nicklaus, an 18-time major champion, was one of the longer hitters of his day, yet he did not experience back pain, he said, until he was in his 40s. The first time Nicklaus withdrew from a tournament, he said, was in 1981 in Ohio when his back started spasming and he dropped to his knees in agony.They had to carry me to the practice tee, Nicklaus said. Two years later, I had the same thing happen here in Augusta in 1983.At New Yorks Mount Sinai Hospital, Dr. Andrew Hecht, the chief of spine surgery, said he has treated a 14-year-old golfer with a stress fracture and a 16-year-old player with a lumbar disk herniation.
Mickelson, who was also at even par after his first round, said he believed the root of the problem was the obsession with power. He said the best method to prevent back issues was not a specific workout regimen or mattress, but a long swing with passive wrists and light grip pressure, one that emphasized the rotation of the hand around the body to allow the club head to swing the hands rather than relying on the big muscles of the back, shoulders and legs to generate torque and swing speed.
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
Mickelsons beliefs are based on the teachings of Jones, who absorbed the lessons of Sir Walter G. Simpson, the author of the 1887 instruction book The Art of Golf.You can play golf for a lifetime and injury-free if you swing the club like Bobby Jones did, Mickelson said, referring to the celebrated amateur and Augusta National co-founder, and like Ernest Jones used to teach, where its a swinging motion rather than a violent movement. A lot of the young guys continue to get hurt as they create this violent connected movement, and I dont believe thats the proper way to swing the golf club. I think you want to use leverage and kind of quiet your body down so the arc and club head can swing and accelerate.On Tuesday, Mickelson played a practice round with Bryson DeChambeau, a 22-year-old amateur who plays with a set of irons that are the same length. DeChambeau, who will turn pro after the Masters, said he believed his clubs had the potential to transform the sport by minimizing stress on the lower back.With variable-length irons, he explained, the golfers posture changes, however slightly, with each club.Barely, but enough to make a difference, DeChambeau said. And when that happens, you start moving your muscles in a different way, fractionally, but your muscles have acquired or have, I guess, molded to be comfortable with a certain position. Your body is not accustomed to that angle.In that way the body, specifically the lower back, becomes more susceptible to injuries, he said.For people with back problems, the issue comes about because youre changing positions every single time you go to a different club, he added.DeChambeau was asked what it would take for people to become believers in his clubs.It would take me playing really well, he said.DeChambeau on Thursday finished even par in his first Masters round. Mickelson, it would seem, is not the only one using the Masters as a platform to reach players with bad backs.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page B8 of the New York edition with the headline: Golfers of All Ages Face an Old Issue: Back Injuries .
Jason Days Long Rise to No. 1 Began With a Mothers Save
Augusta Presents a Steep Challenge (So Wear the Right Shoes)
Jordan Spieth, Humbly, Gets Ready to Defend Masters Crown
For a Golf Tinkerer, a Strategy Just Crazy Enough to Work
Jason Days Long Rise to No. 1 Began With a Mothers Save
Augusta Presents a Steep Challenge (So Wear the Right Shoes)
Jordan Spieth, Humbly, Gets Ready to Defend Masters Crown
For a Golf Tinkerer, a Strategy Just Crazy Enough to Work
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
