244,000 German houses to be blurred out in Google Street View
244,000 German houses to be blurred out in Google Street View
When it comes to privacy, Google Street View has been a delicate service for the Mountain View tech giant to handle around the world. This is particularly true in Germany, where it has been required to offer the option for citizens to have their houses removed.
Googles Street View software automatically blurs out faces and vehicle numberplates to help preserve individuals privacy. In Germany, where the service is yet to launch, houses were added as an optional extra that citizens could apply to have blurred. Initialy they had to send a letter to Google, although more recently an online form wasintroducedto make the process easier.
Our biggest ever edition of TNW Conference is fast approaching!
The deadline for users to apply for this extra privacy measure ended six days ago and Google has nowrevealed exactly how many people want to live in a blurry Street View house. In the 20 German cities in which Street View is launching in first, 244,237 opt-outs from a total of 8,458,084 households were received, equalling a 2.89% rate.
So, why do some Germans fear their houses being featured on Googles service? Quoted recently by Deutsche Welle, newspaper publisher Georg Schaeff explained: The problem with Google Street View is that Google  without asking  has gone and photographed German houses and streets and people do not know how the information is used. Deutsche Welle went on to explain that The countrys highest court has affirmed citizens rights to control who has their personal information and how its used.
In short, Germany is one strict place for privacy. Still, with an opt-out rate of under 3% its clear that many Germans either arent too concerned, or simply werent aware of the issue.
Google says that Street View will launch in twenty German cities within weeks.
Martin Bryant is Editor-at-Large at The Next Web. You can find him on
Twitter, subscribe to him on Facebook and visit his personal site. He's based in Manchester, UK and has a thing for quirky American music and Japanese video games.
NES classic 'Punch-Out' has an Easter egg that went undiscovered for 29 years
See Bitcoin change hands in real-time with this beautiful transaction visualizer
SpaceX finally lands its rocket on a drone ship after delivering bouncy castle for ISS
This lumbering, two-legged droid is the latest creation from Alphabet's robotics projects
Waste hours with this drone video footage guessing game
Watch 1,200 people fall on each other just to break a world record
6 ways to make your personal website more effective
Slack beta update brings mobile calling to iOS and Android users
BlackBerry now wants to make affordable Android phones, but will anyone care?
Periscope tests letting you draw on top of your live video streams
NFL taps into the power of VR as tool to combat racism, sexism
Stay tuned with the weekly recap by our Editor-at-Large Martin Bryant.
NES classic 'Punch-Out' has an Easter egg that went undiscovered for 29 years
Lytro Cinema aims right at Arri and Hollywood by killing the green screen
New Balance's 3D-printed sneakers will run you $400
Tesla has begun recalling its Model X SUV due to faulty rear seat latch
Forget two-wheeled imposters, this is what a hoverboard should look like
Now you can even have your clothes chosen by algorithm
Go from JavaScript beginner to expert with this 8-course coding bundle
Refugees that make it to the UK have been spied on since 2013
6 ways to make your personal website more effective
Periscope tests letting you draw on top of your live video streams
You can market your ass off, but if your product sucks, you're dead.
Sit back and let the hottest tech news come to you by the magic of electronic mail.
Prefer to get the news as it happens? Follow us on social media.
