NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
REBEL OF THE SANDSBy Alwyn Hamilton314 pp. Viking, $18.99.A wily teenage orphan named Amani AlHiza tames an immortal horse made out of sand and wind, and then, dodging bullets from the sultans army, gallops into the desert with a mysterious stranger. What reader wouldnt want to follow them? Hamiltons debut novel, the first in a planned series, invites us to Miraji, a kind of supernatural Wild West full of shape-shifters and sharpshooters, warring princes and steaming locomotives.Any time a young adult book throws a girl and a guy together, the clock starts running on the countdown to the kiss. But Rebel of the Sands is not principally a romance. Its about a girl who disguises herself as a boy and crosses the desert in a terrifying (and sexist) land, discovering along the way who she is and what shes capable of and how she figures into an epic uprising. When Amani tries to get hired to protect a caravan, an obnoxious competitor laughs at her scrawniness  so she shoots the booze out of his hand. You shot me! he whines, to which she replies coolly, No, I shot your glass.... I dont need a lot of muscle to pull a trigger.Rebel of the Sands is a winning bit of storytelling, as well as a homage to storytelling itself. It evokes such disparate influences  1,001 Arabian Nights, Hindu lore and Navajo myth, as well as, inevitably, the triumvirate of Tolkien, Lucas and Rowling  that at times you wonder whether Hamilton can pull it all off. She can. She has circled a spot on the map and claimed it for her own.
ASKING FOR ITBy Louise ONeill304 pp. Quercus, $16.99.Try to be brave, grown-ups. ONeills second novel may be scary, but it is riveting and essential. Teenagers will recognize its difficult truth and devour it  behind your backs, if need be.Emma ODonovan, a gorgeous 18-year-old Irish girl, is a snob and a boyfriend stealer. She wields her sexuality like somebody waving a gun. At a party, she drinks heavily, ingests a mysterious drug and hooks up with a local soccer star. And then she is gang-raped and dumped unconscious on her porch.
Emma remembers nothing, a small mercy. But photos of the attack have been uploaded to a Facebook page called Easy Emma, on which cruel comments bloom by the minute. Her big brother sees it. Her mam. Even her beloved dad, who cant bear to look at her now.Because the rape comes back to Emma only in flashes, Asking for It depicts less violence against women than many TV shows. ONeill is most interested in capturing the voice in Emmas head: Shes so traumatized that her first instinct is to apologize to her attackers, and shes buried under so much shame that she feels as if the bones of my skeleton are shifting, moving in like a cage around my heart, squeezing all the air out of my lungs. You may be staggered by Emmas inability to make a self-respecting decision, even as her story goes international. But youll be lit up with pain and rage on her behalf, and grateful for the few who stand by her. Emma always seems incontrovertibly real. Whats terrifying is that the world she lives in  full of misogyny and deep, communal denial  does too. Continue reading the main story
THANKS FOR THE TROUBLEBy Tommy Wallach276 pp. Simon & Schuster, $17.99.The cover of Wallachs second novel (after the best-selling We All Looked Up) looks like a still from a lost Wes Anderson movie: A wary teenage boy stares at a beatific, tinsel-haired woman of indeterminate age in the lobby of a once-grand hotel. It nails whats most endearing about Thanks for the Trouble: its tacit plea for connection and its affection for all the wounded eccentrics.Parker Sant hasnt spoken in years, since witnessing his fathers horrific death. Zelda Toth looks not much older than Parker, but claims to have been born in Germany in 1770. They meet at a San Francisco hotel when he makes off with the cash in her handbag, only to find hes left his journal behind. Zelda, existentially weary after so many lifetimes, plans to jump off the Golden Gate Bridge. She proposes a blowout weekend: Shell live it up for the last time, Parker for the first.Parker can be off-putting  immature and casually profane one moment, insightful beyond his years the next. (Its easier to believe that Zelda is 246 than that a teenager could have composed some of the fable-like stories he writes in his journal, which are included as interstitial chapters.) But Zeldas a sparkling creation, as mysterious as a mermaid. Even Parkers classmates are drawn to her: I could see they were seeing me in a different light now; I felt like a pitted little moon that had just been discovered orbiting a supernova. Its a pleasure to watch Zelda flirt, fling money and coax Parker out of what, emotionally speaking, is less a shell than a bunker. At its best, the novel carries a worthy message: No life is without pain  or promise.KLICKITATBy Peter Rock229 pp. Amulet, $17.95.Rocks first Y.A. novel is so haunting and elliptical, it takes you over like a fever. Our narrator, 15-year-old Vivian, is in the grip of a disorder no one can diagnose. She has a history of becoming agitated. She craves connection so desperately, shell put on a life jacket just to simulate being held. Vivians parents police her meds and live in fear shell unravel. Her classmates flinch when they see her, afraid shell hit. But Vivian is a true innocent (I never hit anyone, she promises). Were flooded with the sense that something terrible is coming for her.
Sign up to receive a preview of each Sundays Book Review, delivered to your inbox every Friday.
Rocks prose calls to mind Kazuo Ishiguro, not just for its spareness but also for its mix of wonder and creepiness. All that moors Vivian to the world is her 17-year-old sister, Audra, who calms her by stroking her hair and whispering Klickitat, the street Beverly Clearys Ramona lived on. She lets Vivian grab her fiercely when, as Vivian puts it, the blood was roaring around in my body and racing in my ears and all I wanted was to hold on. But Audra is plainly trouble. She has met a man whos going to help them escape their parents hollow life and live in the woods as some sort of feral new family.After a few chapters in Vivians company, grown-ups will not just pray for her safety but also want to sue for custody. Teenagers may be frustrated by the elusiveness. Dramatic events happen offstage; questions are left hanging. But Rock taps into something moving about love and disconnectedness  and how hard it is for a young, dented heart to process the world when the world cant process her.
Jeff Giless debut young adult novel, The Edge of Everything, will be published next year. He is a former deputy managing editor of Entertainment Weekly.
A version of this review appears in print on April 10, 2016, on page BR30 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Y.A. Crossover.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
