Meritus Medical Center notifies patients of improper access to data - SC Magazine
Spying on iPhones a cinch with 'Su-A-Cyder' homegrown malware kit
Pros examine Mossack Fonseca breach: WordPress plugin, Drupal likely suspects
Energy execs may be too confident in ability to detect threats as cyber attacks ...
Massive DDoS attack could spell trouble for standard protections
WordPress sets up default HTTPS encryption for custom domains
Report: Dark web surprisingly small, with less than 30K sites
The dark web is actually much smaller than you think, and the percentage of websites residing there that provide illegal content and services is also over-exaggerated, according to a new report from Intelliagg and Darksum.
Argentina, the United States and Vietnam were among the top producers of zombie IP addresses following Russia.
Meritus Medical Center notifies patients of improper access to data
Meritus Medical Center notifies patients of improper access to data
Maryland-based Meritus Medical Center is notifying more than a thousand patients that an employee with one of its vendors may have accessed patient information outside of their normal job duties.
What type of personal information? Names, dates of birth, ages, genders, medical record numbers, and treatments and/or diagnosis information. In some instances, health insurance information and Social Security numbers.
What happened? An employee of a Meritus Medical Center vendor may have accessed patient information outside of their normal job duties.
What was the response? Meritus suspended the employee's access to its systems and conducted an investigation. Meritus is working to further strengthen controls related to vendor access to patient information, and is enhancing its existing system monitoring capabilities with regard to vendor access. All potentially impacted patients are being notified.
Details: The incident was discovered by Meritus on May 4 during its routine compliance and self-audit efforts. The employee may have accessed the data between July 2014 and April.
Quote: Even though we have no evidence that any of this information has been misused, we began mailing letters to affected individuals on June 26, 2015, and have established a dedicated call center to answer any questions they may have, a notification posted to the Meritus website said.
Source: meritushealth.com, Notice to Meritus Medical Center Patients Regarding Privacy Incident, June 26, 2015.
Malware on Tactical Assault Gear website targets customer information
Illinois insurer says software error resulted in data exposure
Unity Recovery Group client data improperly disclosed
Former Jacobi Medical Center employee improperly emails patient data
Seattle Public Schools data improperly released, at least 8,000 students affected
You must be a registered member of SC Magazine to post a comment.
Illinois insurer says software error resulted in data exposure
Pros examine Mossack Fonseca breach: WordPress plugin, Drupal likely suspects
Will the Panama Papers change legal firms' cyber practices?
UPDATE: Petya ransomware leverages Dropbox and overwrites hard drives
IT depts. suffering from 'patch fatigue,' study says
W-2 Data Breach places 21K Sprouts Farmers Market employees at risk
3,000 Tidewater Community College workers victimized in W-2 scam
FBI investigating attack against computer networks at U.S. law firms
Worldpay merchant portal allowed merchants to view customer card data
Massive DDoS attack could spell trouble for standard protections
WordPress sets up default HTTPS encryption for custom domains
Costa Rica investigating rigged elections by political hacker
Kentucky State University was hit with a data breach on March 22 when an employee, responding to an email supposedly from the school's president, sent off W-2s for employees and ...
3,000 Tidewater Community College workers victimized in W-2 scam
Tidewater Community College (TCC) in Norfolk, Va., reported the tax information of all its employees was hijacked in a spear phishing scam.
Attacker compromises information of 250K in Bailey's data breach
Outdoor equipment retailer Bailey's Inc. notified its customers their information may have been compromised for more than four years.
SC Magazine arms information security professionals with the in-depth, unbiased business and technical information they need to tackle the countless security challenges they face and establish risk management and compliance postures that underpin overall business strategies.
Copyright  2016 Haymarket Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorization.
Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of Haymarket Media's Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
