Behind the Scenes at Disney as It Purged a Favorite Son - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Media|Behind the Scenes at Disney as It Purged a Favorite Son
Behind the Scenes at Disney as It Purged a Favorite Son
In recent months Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company since 2005, had been involved in an effort to return N.F.L. football to Los Angeles.
Thomas O. Staggs, then the chief financial officer of the Walt Disney Company, was having lunch with Robert A. Iger and other high-ranking Disney executives in 2003 in the companys boardroom when food lodged in Mr. Igers windpipe.With Mr. Iger struggling to breathe and turning red, another executive started pounding his back, to no effect. Mr. Staggs leapt up, and applied the Heimlich maneuver so forcefully that he broke one of Mr. Igers ribs. Out popped a piece of chicken.Stanley P. Gold, then a Disney director, sent Mr. Staggs a note: Youre a hero.In the byzantine world of Hollywood media conglomerates, not even saving the future chief executives life confers any job security. In a throwback to the tumultuous era of Disneys former chief executive, Michael D. Eisner, who anointed  and then discarded  a series of potential successors, Mr. Staggs was purged this week.Just a year ago, it appeared that Mr. Iger and Disneys board had turned the page on Disneys troubled past and executed the delicate task of succession at the top with the same flawless precision they brought to Decembers premiere of Star Wars: The Force Awakens.In 2010, Mr. Iger named Mr. Staggs chairman of the companys theme park division, broadening his management experience while putting him in a horse race with Jay Rasulo, who replaced Mr. Staggs as chief financial officer. Last year Mr. Staggs emerged the winner. Mr. Iger named him chief operating officer, and Mr. Rasulo departed.
It was literally a textbook case of a smooth succession: The Stanford business school professor David F. Larcker used it as an example in the latest edition of his book Corporate Governance Matters.Disney went through a process that seemed very sensible and effective, Professor Larcker told me this week. Within a year it has all unraveled. Thats a nightmare scenario for the board and the company. Continue reading the main story
Disney said Mr. Iger, who is 65 and has been running Disney since 2005, still plans to retire as scheduled in 2018, a little more than two years from now. But there is no immediate successor within the company, and no obvious candidate outside it.After six years of observing and grooming Mr. Staggs, 55, the board has to start over.Mr. Iger and Mr. Staggs were close both professionally and personally. They seemed to have much in common: easygoing, personable, youthful-looking fitness buffs, lovers of fine wine.They have children close in ages. They and their families vacationed together on the maiden voyage of the Disney cruise ship Fantasy, and shared several trips to Walt Disney World.
From left, Robert Iger, chief of the Walt Disney Company; Ben Sherwood, co-chairman of Disney Media Networks, and president of the Disney-ABC Television Group; and Thomas Staggs, chief operating officer of the Walt Disney Company.
Mr. Staggs had every reason to believe he was on track to succeed Mr. Iger. During the year since Mr. Staggs was named to the No. 2 position, Disney had moved from one triumph to another: an Oscar for the revived animation units Big Hero 6; lavish praise and box office success for Pixars Inside Out; vindication of the Marvel acquisition with another smash Avengers hit; the record-setting opening of Star Wars: The Force Awakens.And then there is Disneys most ambitious project of all: the imminent unveiling of its $5.5 billion Shanghai Disneyland resort, Mr. Staggss major achievement as theme park chairman. In the year that Mr. Staggs was chief operating officer, first-quarter earnings jumped 36 percent to a record $2.9 billion.True, Disneys stock price, along with market averages, was down. After peaking at over $120 in August, it was trading this week at just under $100. But that decline was set off by Mr. Igers comments to analysts that growth at the Disney-owned sports network ESPN was slowing under subscriber losses. Until then, Disney had been the best-performing stock in the Dow Jones industrial average for 2015.
Mr. Iger also appeared to be laying the groundwork for his own next act: to lead the National Football Leagues return to Los Angeles after a 21-year absence. Mr. Iger was granted options to buy minority stakes in the Raiders and Chargers and was named chairman of a holding company that would move the teams to Los Angeles and oversee the building of a new stadium and adjacent real estate development.Mr. Iger met with N.F.L. owners in Houston in January to pitch the deal. According to a detailed account in the Disney-owned ESPN the Magazine, Mr. Igers legendary charm fell flat with the league owners, who opted for a rival bid on Jan. 12. Mr. Igers franchise options were terminated.Perhaps the timing was simply coincidence. A person close to the board said that the collapse of the deal had nothing to do with Mr. Igers evaluation of Mr. Staggs, and that Mr. Iger became involved with the N.F.L. out of a sense of civic duty. Had the bid succeeded, it would have been at most a part-time job.In any event, in the following weeks board discussions about Mr. Staggss future intensified. Unknown to Mr. Staggs, some on the board had resisted naming him chief operating officer the year before, but Mr. Iger had prevailed. Those reservations surfaced again periodically, focusing on whether Mr. Staggs was the ideal person to lead Disney over the next 10 years, a period likely to take the company into the uncharted waters of the continuing digital revolution and the post-cable era.In mid-March, Mr. Iger summoned Mr. Staggs to his office and dropped a bombshell: Mr. Staggs lacked the full confidence of both Mr. Iger and the Disney board, which had been discussing Mr. Staggss performance at recent board meetings. Mr. Iger told him Disney was going to broaden its search for his successor.Mr. Iger didnt say explicitly that Mr. Staggs was out of the running, but the message was clear. Mr. Iger made no effort to persuade Mr. Staggs to stay. He offered no specific criticisms, according to a person close to Mr. Staggs, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to disclose company matters publicly. Instead, Mr. Iger offered only a vague reference to Mr. Staggss lack of vision.(Both Mr. Staggs and Mr. Iger declined to comment for this column.)The next week both men were away, spending spring break with their families. After they returned, they discussed the terms and timing of Mr. Staggss departure, which they decided would be announced this past Monday. In making the announcement, Mr. Iger praised Mr. Staggss contributions and called him a great friend.
James B. Stewart of New York Times on the abrupt resignation of the favored candidate to lead the entertainment company and potential heirs for the Magic Kingdom after the chief executive's retirement.
Mr. Staggs has been publicly gracious. He said it had been a privilege to work at Disney, and he and Mr. Iger had lunch on Tuesday in the rotunda of the Disney headquarters cafeteria, where they were visible to many employees.
Within the ranks of Disney, where Mr. Staggs continues to be widely admired, there was widespread shock. Everybody on Wall Street loves Tom, said Doug Creutz, senior media and entertainment analyst for Cowen & Company.Mr. Staggss contract provides for a six-month period as a consultant. He will not be present on June 16 for the gala opening of the Shanghai Disneyland Resort in China, his signature achievement during his tenure at Disney.No one is perfect, and Mr. Iger may well have developed reservations about Mr. Staggs over the past year. But whatever his and the boards motives in orchestrating Mr. Staggss departure, one thing is clear: Mr. Iger is now indispensable at Disney.For longtime Disney employees and observers, the situation is all too familiar. Among Mr. Eisners heirs apparent was Jeffrey Katzenberg, who left to found the rival studio DreamWorks after Mr. Eisner famously reneged on a promise to make him president.Michael Ovitz, the superagent who was at the time Mr. Eisners best friend, lasted less than a year as president before Mr. Eisner undermined him and then had him fired. Pressed by the board to name a successor, Mr. Eisner cited the entertainment executive Barry Diller, but then wrote a confidential letter to the board saying that the fact he is a homosexual should have no weight, which, at the time, all but guaranteed Mr. Diller would never succeed him.Mr. Eisner was in the midst of undermining Mr. Iger, telling board members he lacked stature, when a shareholder revolt led by Roy E. Disney, Walts nephew, forced Mr. Eisners resignation.While more facts may emerge, what is known so far is fully consistent with Mr. Iger wanting to remain as chief executive, Professor Larcker said. Theres a long history in business of picking a successor and then discrediting them.Disney insists that the decision had nothing to do with Mr. Igers wanting to extend his tenure. Given his superb track record at Disney, he could surely stay as long as he wants. Unlike the situation when Mr. Eisner left, Disney is by no means in crisis. The animation unit, film operations and theme parks, in particular, seem to be firing on all cylinders.
But the person who has close ties to the board told me that board members have been keenly interested in succession and, given Disneys history, very aware of the perils of a chief executive who stays too long. With Mr. Staggs gone, and no other obvious candidate to take his place, the board may have little choice but to beg Mr. Iger to stay.If youre a Disney board member, your workload has just gone up a lot and youre going to get a lot of scrutiny, Professor Larcker said. Now they have to get someone better than Staggs. Thats going to be a pretty high bar.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Behind the Scenes at Disney as It Purged an Heir Apparent.
A column by James B. Stewart that goes inside the world of business.
Corporations No Longer Sit Idly By on Discrimination
On Business Issues, Republicans Might Want a Justice Garland
Republicans Have a Stake in Making a Deal on a Supreme Court Justice
In College Endowment Returns, Davids Beat the Goliaths
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
