Review: The Winters Tale and Pericles on the London Stage - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Theater|Review: The Winters Tale and Pericles on the London Stage
Review: The Winters Tale and Pericles on the London Stage
John Light as Leontes in The Winters Tale at the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse
LONDON  Sometimes, it pays to look below the radar. By way of proof, consider the scorching production of The Winters Tale running at the indoor Sam Wanamaker Playhouse at Shakespeares Globe through April 22.This account of the play opened quietly in the wake of a far splashier Winters Tale on the West End, starring and co-directed by Kenneth Branagh. That production also boasted the box office catnip of the sublime Judi Dench as Paulina, the plays voice of moral reason and authority.But, in portraying a ferocity that eventually yields to high spirits and hard-won forgiveness, the director Michael Longhursts reckoning with this tricky late-Shakespeare play beats Mr. Branaghs hands down. From the jealous Leontess assertion near the start that my wife is slippery, Mr. Longhurst never loses his grip on the tonal shifts of a work that couples fury and recrimination with a post-intermission ribaldry that can be tough sledding in many a Winters Tale but manages to be cheekily engaging here.Scarcely have we been informed of the twin lambs that the two kings, Leontes of Sicilia and Polixenes of Bohemia, were in their youth before Leontes (John Light) turns wrathfully against his confrere Polixenes (Simon Armstrong). The putative cause of this royal rage is none other than Leontess own wife, Hermione (Rachael Stirling), whom he is soon deriding as a bedswerver  theres a ripe aspersion for you!  as his turmoil leads to at least one death on the way to as rending a finish as Shakespeare ever wrote.The trap with Leontes is to make a meal of the characters wayward psyche, but the excellent Mr. Light forsakes grandstanding in favor of a direct attack on the part that is here so unsparing that it is difficult to behold; you are left unsure what further spasms of violence might erupt or the form they could take.
It is no surprise, then, that the wronged Hermione seems both physically and emotionally incapacitated by her husbands ill judgment. A throaty Ms. Stirling all but appears to give up on life before  spoiler alert!  partaking of a climactic scene of regeneration and renewal characteristic of the four late Shakespeare plays with which this play is running in repertory at the Globe.The second half of The Winters Tale hurtles forward in time and shifts from the grim landscape of Leontess grievous court to the sheep-shearing frolics of Bohemia, which is to say to those antic passages in Shakespeare that often look as if they are probably more fun to perform than they are to watch; Sir Toby Belch and his rambunctious colleagues in Twelfth Night come to mind. Continue reading the main story
Happily, Mr. Longhurst allows the close confines of this newer bijou theater  the Sam Wanamaker opened in January 2014  to amplify the Bohemian anarchy. The company seizes every opportunity for improvisation and extra-textual wordplay, as is the wont at this address: Wait, Ive got short legs, the Sicilian lord Camillo (Fergal McElherron) says as he clambers into the center-stage drollery presided over by the roguish Autolycus (an irrepressible James Garnon). Nor can I recall Shakespeare referencing either sexual stimulants or a recipe for risotto, both of which get folded into the language here.But the frivolity sets up the glorious final passages, which return us to Sicilia and a newly chastened Leontes who watches as the wise but firm Paulina (an elegantly impassioned Niamh Cusack) acts as the plays resident shaman, doing what she can to put all to rights in a production that doesnt put a foot wrong.There is tyranny aplenty, not to mention the potential for tomfoolery, in Pericles, another in the quartet of offerings at the Globe. (Cymbeline and The Tempest complete the lineup, the first of those announcing a star-to-be in the radiant Emily Barber as its guileless heroine.)
For a comparatively obscure title, Pericles is having a moment on both sides of the Atlantic; the veteran English director Trevor Nunn is responsible for a commendably robust production now in its final week at Theater for a New Audience in Brooklyn.Alas  at least as encountered relatively late in its run  the acting in the Globe Pericles is as hammy as it is unadorned in The Winters Tale. One feels as if all concerned were taking their cue from the cutesy Gower proffered by an impish Sheila Reid. Cast as a choral figure who acts as an M.C., Ms. Reid widens her eyes on lines like Ooh, what shall be next? the audience treated like schoolchildren being invited out to play.Pericles is the penultimate production at this address of the laudable artistic director Dominic Dromgoole, who is passing the reins to Emma Rice. Here, the play comes credited to Shakespeare and his contemporary, George Wilkins. The joint authorship may account for the scattershot qualities of a sprawling text that is far more structurally diffuse than The Winters Tale and sorely needs a more-authoritative Gower to keep events on track.
Several of The Winters Tale cast also appear in Pericles, starting with James Garnon, whose Pericles would benefit from the economy of effect that Mr. Light brings to Leontes. (Mr. Garnons vocal swoops seem especially self-conscious.) Conversely, Jessica Baglow is often unintelligible in the defining role of Pericless daughter Marina  an especially notable problem in such an enclosed space.Yet there is an undeniable benefit from experiencing all four of these productions and allowing their shared themes to ricochet off one another.Some have knottier plots than others, and only The Winters Tale is quite so emphatic on the topic of wonder, but taken together, these so-called romances offer a rare opportunity to play Shakespearean compare and contrast.Mr. Branaghs Winters Tale, meanwhile, made history last Sunday night at the 40th annual Laurence Olivier Awards  Londons equivalent of the Tonys  when it brought Ms. Dench her eighth trophy, for her casually fierce Paulina. Her first such prize came in 1977 for playing Lady Macbeth.The bard got many a shout-out elsewhere during the ceremony, with the host Michael Ball interrupting wearisomely smutty patter to remark that Shakespeare had won more Oliviers than any other writer  66 in all for the various artists who have presented his works over time.Id love to know who his agent is, Mr. Ball quipped. (The statuette itself depicts Olivier in his signature role as Henry V.)The wealth was spread among titles both familiar and new, veteran actors (Kenneth Cranham, an immensely deserving best actor recipient for The Father) and younger shooting stars (Denise Gough, of the Duncan Macmillian play People, Places and Things).And even when Shakespeares name wasnt on the label, so to speak, he lingered in the air by association. Imelda Staunton, who won best actress in a musical for her role in Gypsy, did her bit by describing that shows lyricist, Stephen Sondheim, as the American Shakespeare. This April 23 may signal the 400th anniversary of Shakespeares death, but more than ever, it seems, he walks among us in life.The Winters Tale.
Directed by Michael Longhurst. Sam Wanamaker Playhouse. Through April 22.Pericles.
Directed by Dominic Dromgoole. Sam Wanamaker Playhouse. Through
An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated the last name of the actor in Pericles. He is James Garnon, not Garmon.
A version of this review appears in print on April 8, 2016, in The International New York Times.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
