Theresa Mays threat to the privacy of reading | John Naughton | Opinion | The Guardian
Despite the governments assurances that privacy will be safeguarded, the draft investigatory powers bill is deeply and dangerously intrusive
Home secretary, Theresa May, unveils the draft Investigatory powers bill in the House of Commons on 4 November.
Reading through the draft investigatory powers bill on Wednesday evening, one name came to mind, that of Frederick Douglass. He was an African American former slave who became one of the most eloquent campaigners for the abolition of slavery and was the living refutation of plantation owners contention that their property lacked the intelligence to function as independent citizens.
Douglass was a remarkable orator and at least as remarkable a writer. His autobiography is one of the glories of the 19th century. In it, he records how, as a slave, he managed to learn to read, partly due to the initial kindness of his owners wife. But when her husband learned of this, he forbade her to continue. The first step in her downward course, recalls Douglass, was in her ceasing to instruct me. She now commenced to practise her husbands precepts. She finally became even more violent in her opposition than her husband himself. She was not satisfied with simply doing as well as he had commanded; she seemed anxious to do better. Nothing seemed to make her more angry than to see me with a newspaper. She seemed to think that here lay the danger.
What had happened, of course, was that his master and mistress had realised that reading and slavery were incompatible with each other. From this time, he writes, I was most narrowly watched. If I was in a separate room any considerable length of time, I was sure to be suspected of having a book and was at once called to give an account of myself.
As the US republic evolved, the lesson of Douglasss insight  that there is an indissoluble link between liberty and the freedom to read what one chooses  was baked into its civic culture. It is what made American librarians into such doughty defenders of private reading. Lack of privacy and confidentiality chills users choices, thereby suppressing access to ideas, says the website of the American Library Association.
The possibility of surveillance, whether direct or through access to records of speech, research and exploration, undermines a democratic society, it continues. Confidentiality of library records is a core value of librarianship. One cannot exercise the right to read if the possible consequences include damage to ones reputation, ostracism from the community or workplace or criminal penalties. For libraries to flourish as centres for uninhibited access to information, librarians must stand behind their users right to privacy and freedom of inquiry... The right to privacy is the right to open inquiry without having the subject of ones interest examined or scrutinised by others.
These lofty arguments cut no ice with the rulers of the UKs national security state. The draft bill proposes that henceforth everyones clickstream  the URLs of every website one visits  is to be collected and stored for 12 months and may be inspected by agents of the state under certain arrangements. But collecting the stream will be done without any warrant. To civil libertarians who are upset by this new power, the governments response boils down to this: Dont worry, because were just collecting the part of the URL that specifies the web server and thats just communications data (aka metadata); were not reading the content of the pages you visit, except under due authorisation.
Related: Mass snooping and more  the measures in Theresa May's bill
This is the purest cant, for two reasons. The first is that, in a world dominated by machine-learning technology, the metadata is what intelligence services really crave because it can easily be mined for patterns and connections. The second reason is that metadata can be incredibly revealing, as the German parliamentarian Malte Spitz discovered when studying six months of his own digital trail in 2011. But Herr Spitzs metadata was just detailing his physical movements. The details of ones clickstream can be equally revealing, as Mikey Smith, the Daily Mirrors online reporter, brilliantly demonstrated by showing that homepage URLs do not require a warrant under the new bill.
Given that the distinction between metadata and content is eroding and the fact that, in a digital world, so much of our reading is done online, what we are looking at is the end of private reading in this country. This particular provision in the bill is highly intrusive and will become more so in the years to come. The political calculation underpinning home secretary Theresa Mays draft legislation is that the great British public, which is famously relaxed about surveillance, will wear it. She may well be right.
As Frederick Douglass shrewdly observed over a century ago: Find out just what any people will quietly submit to and you have the exact measure of the injusticeand wrong which will be imposed on them.
or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.
Were doing some maintenance right now. You can still read comments, but please come back later to add your own.
Commenting has been disabled for this account (why?)
Tech firms warn snooper's charter could end strong encryption in Britain
The IP bill gives the government the power to demand tech companies weaken their encryption, say industry representatives  despite promises to the contrary
Tech firms warn snooper's charter could end strong encryption in Britain
George Osborne's spending review to raise number of UK spies
Chancellor promises to increase number of intelligence officers in all three British security services
George Osborne's spending review to raise number of UK spies
Andy Burnham calls for more judicial safeguards in UK surveillance bill
Shadow home secretary, who had welcomed draft investigatory powers bill, shifts position in letter to Theresa May after consulting Lord Falconer
Andy Burnham calls for more judicial safeguards in UK surveillance bill
May to assist case on anti-terror laws after police accessed phone records
Sun political editor has accused police of breaching his human rights in obtaining call data to identify source of Plebgate story
May to assist case on anti-terror laws after police accessed phone records
David Davis: British 'intellectually lazy' about defending liberty
David Davis: British 'intellectually lazy' about defending liberty
This snoopers charter makes George Orwell look lacking in vision
This snoopers charter makes George Orwell look lacking in vision
Privacy is starting to seem like a very 20th-century anomaly
Privacy is starting to seem like a very 20th-century anomaly
 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. Allrightsreserved.
