NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Installing Adobe ReaderQ. I cant seem to download Adobe Acrobat so I can print some rebate forms. What can I do?A. Adobe makes several programs that can read Portable Document Format (PDF) files,
format used for everything from official tax forms from the I.R.S. to newsletters, rebate forms and magazines. Adobe Acrobat and Adobe Reader (formerly called Adobe Acrobat Reader) are the two main programs the company offers for working with PDF files, but there are several differences between them to keep in mind.Adobe Acrobat, which lets you create, edit and save your own PDF files, comes in several versions aimed at business and graphics professionals. The program can cost up to several hundred dollars, depending on which version you get. You can purchase the software in stores or by clicking the Store link at www.adobe.com.Adobe Reader, on the other hand, is a free program used mostly for displaying and printing PDF files. Adobe has versions of the free software for many types of systems, including Windows (95 through Vista), old and new versions of the Macintosh operating system, Linux, Unix and even hand-held organizers that run the Palm, Pocket PC or Symbian systems.You can download Adobe Reader by going to the downloads page on Adobes site (a shortcut is at tinyurl.com/a9sbq) and following the instructions, which include selecting the appropriate version for your operating system from the pop-up menus on the page. Once the file downloads, double-click its icon to start the Adobe Reader installation process.
PDF files can retain the fonts, images and layout of the document as it was originally designed. Adobe created the format, but it is not the only company that makes PDF software. Sites like Planet PDF (www.planetpdf.com) list other programs for Windows, Macintosh and Linux systems.Graphics Programs For the PCQ. A few years ago, the general opinion seemed to be that Apples Macintosh computer was the one to get if you wanted to do any kind of graphics work. I would like to know if this is still the case, or has anybody made progress in the graphics programs for Windows?A. Although Macintosh computers were (and still are) the first hardware choice for many graphic designers, illustrators, photographers and artists because of the Macintosh operating system and its selection of software, Windows users have a wide choice of programs, too.Corel and Adobe are among the companies making Windows-compatible graphics programs that use common industry file formats, and its possible to find plenty of animation, 3-D rendering and architectural software for the PC as well.The Google Directory has a list of links to major makers of graphics and photo software at tinyurl.com/346c2t.Staying Safe On Windows VistaQ. I just bought a new computer with Windows Vista installed. What are my options for security software, or should I just use what came with the system?A. Windows Vista comes with its own firewall and antispyware program, and its Internet Explorer 7 browser includes a pop-up ad blocker and a filter that can help spot fraudulent Web sites and swindles.An antivirus program is still essential for safe computing on the Internet, though, and many PC makers include an antivirus application or full security suite as a trial or with a years worth of updates.
If you dont like the included software, there are other options, as plenty of security companies have upgraded their wares for the Vista system, and some offer limited trial versions to download and try from their Web sites.Trend Micro, Symantec and McAfee all have antivirus and security suites that have been updated to run on Windows Vista, and Microsoft has even moved into the market with its own Windows Live OneCare suite.If you want
more details on software products before you buy and install them, several Web sites have posted reviews of current antivirus and security programs.PC Magazine (www.pcmag.com), CNet (cnet.com) and PC World (www.pcworld.com) frequently rate and review security software, and sites like AV Comparatives (www.av-comparatives.org) pit programs against one another to test their effectiveness at stopping malicious software.J. D. BIERSDORFER
Questions about computer-based technology may be sent to QandA @nytimes.com. This weekly column will address questions of general interest, but e-mail and letters cannot be answered individually.
A version of this article appears in print on , on page C8 of the New York edition.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
