Resigning From 76ers, Sam Hinkie Mounts a Defense as Shaky as His Teams - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Pro Basketball|Resigning From 76ers, Sam Hinkie Mounts a Defense as Shaky as His Teams
Resigning From 76ers, Sam Hinkie Mounts a Defense as Shaky as His Teams
Under Sam Hinkies stewardship, the Sixers won 19, 18 and, this season so far, 10 games.
Sam Hinkie went to the Philadelphia 76ers in 2013 with a novel idea.He would not try to improve the team incrementally. Instead, he would tear it down, trading talented players for draft picks, and in the process earn other high picks by posting poor records.Then he would flip the switch, cash in the draft picks, use ample salary-cap room to bring in free agents and transform a terrible team into a championship one.Hinkie never got to flip the switch.Hinkie resigned as the teams general manager Wednesday night. Under his stewardship, the Sixers won 19, 18 and, so far this season, 10 games.His 7,000-word resignation letter, obtained by ESPN, mounts a vigorous, if meandering, defense of his methods. It also includes references to Abraham Lincoln, Warren Buffett, Jeff Bezos and the moa, an extinct flightless bird.
Here is a look at some of Hinkies convictions, as expressed in his letter, and how they played out in his three seasons in charge:A competitive league like the N.B.A. necessitates a zig while our competitors comfortably zag.The Sixers had been on a treadmill of .500 ball for years when Hinkie arrived; perhaps bottoming out was the best way to reach the top?
Sam Hinkie drafted Nerlens Noel (4) at No. 6 in 2013 and Jahlil Okafor (8) at No. 3 in 2015 and the two have been unable to play effectively together.
But Hinkies zig meant rolling out an atrocious team year after year. For owners and fans who initially supported his methods, the losing got to be too much.You can be right for the wrong reasons. In our business, youre often lionized for it. You can be wrong for the right reasons. ... The decision to draft Joel third, though, still looks to me to be the correct one in hindsight.Joel Embiid, drafted No. 3 over all in 2014, missed the end of his single year at Kansas. He had foot surgery shortly before the draft. Setbacks followed, and he has still not played a minute in the N.B.A.Use a decision journal. Write in your own words what you think will happen and why before a decision. Refer back to it later. See if you were right, and for the right reasons.Hinkies two other marquee draft picks were, like Embiid, big men. Nerlens Noel, drafted No. 6 in 2013, has struggled on offense; Jahlil Okafor, No. 3 in 2015, has struggled on defense. Worse, the two have been unable to play effectively together. Okafor has also had trouble off the court, including nightclub altercations. All the young players on the team have seemed to suffer from a lack of veteran leadership to ease them into the N.B.A.Check out the 10,000 Year Clock. It is no mere thought experiment, but an actual clock being designed to be placed inside a mountain in West Texas, wound, and left to tick and chime for ten thousand years. Why? Because to design something that lasts that long makes us all consider what the world will look like between now and then.
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
Hinkies long view  to be fair, its probably less than 10,000 years  meant that a good player was a liability, not an asset. The Sixers best player when Hinkie arrived was Jrue Holiday. He was traded. Thaddeus Young had his best year in Hinkies first season. He was traded.
Hinkie scored a coup with the 11th pick in the 2013 draft, Michael Carter-Williams, who won the Rookie of the Year Award. He was traded.Hinkies own clock came up 9,997 years short.The N.B.A. can be a league of desperation, those that are in it and those that can avoid it. So many find themselves caught in the zugzwang, the point in the game where all possible moves make you worse off. Your positioning is now the opposite of that. The team is reasonably well positioned for the future with an abundance of first-round draft picks and plenty of salary-cap room. Maybe it can indeed avoid the zugzwang.Maybe Embiid will get healthy. Maybe Dario Saric, a Croatian power forward acquired at the 2014 draft but still playing in Europe, will sign with the team and be special. Maybe the team can sign some big free agents, though why a star would want to join a team this abysmal is an open question.If the team does get good, Hinkie may even get some of the credit.But three seasons are lost, three seasons in which loyal fans watched the team lose again and again, while paying full N.B.A. prices.
No matter how the Sixers fare in the future, those seasons will never come back.
An earlier version of this article misstated the timing of Joel Embiids foot surgery with regards to the 2014 draft. He had surgery shortly before the draft, not two months after the draft.
A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 2016, on page B13 of the New York edition with the headline: Resigning From 76ers, G.M. Mounts a Defense as Shaky as His Teams.
Hawks Thabo Sefolosha Files Suit Against New York Police Officers
Friendship Gives Rambis and Jackson a History, and Perhaps a Future
Hawks Thabo Sefolosha Files Suit Against New York Police Officers
Friendship Gives Rambis and Jackson a History, and Perhaps a Future
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
