A Tour of Kurt Andersen’s Home Office in Brooklyn - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Men’s Style|A Tour of Kurt Andersen’s Home Office in Brooklyn
Kurt AndersenAge 61Occupation Author and host of the public radio program “Studio 360”Location BrooklynHis Favorite Room In the 19th-century brownstone he and his wife bought 25 years ago, Mr. Andersen has converted a second-floor room into his home office. With its shelves of books, paperwork-covered desk and tchotchkes like an alien doll and a synthetic human mask, the office is a pleasingly cluttered “free-fire zone,” the author said.As a writer, did you fantasize about having a home office?I didn’t fantasize about any of it. The idea that I could own a house in New York was not on my list of fantasies. We had a baby and then another one imminent. We lived in the East Village, and not only did we not have enough room in our apartment, but it was the height of the crack epidemic. In order to try to avoid moving out of the city, we came to Brooklyn.You know, in 1989, you sort of didn’t go to Brooklyn. In fact, it was an admission of defeat if you moved here.
A portrait of an interesting man in his living space (or favorite place), complete with a Q & A.
A Tour of Pastry Chef David Lebovitz’s Home Kitchen in Paris
A Paris Apartment for the Hermès Men’s Wear Designer
What do you love about your office?The fact that it’s my place. And literally that it’s this dark color, which makes it feel like a giant velvet chair. In New York, you make your peace with not having space. Once I did have a separate office, it was amazing.Some people can’t work from home. The TV or the refrigerator beckons, or their children barge in.Because I’d had real jobs that I had to show up for every day, I baked in that discipline. You get up, you have breakfast, you start to work.But for a 4-year-old, that’s hard to understand. Daddy’s here all day. What do you mean I can’t come in? That’s tough and sad at first, and then they get used to it. And then they grow up thinking you don’t work, you just stay home all day.I have to ask: What’s with the baby doll on the fireplace mantel?Apparently, as a very small boy I carried it around and loved it. It was called Boy Doll. I had matching onesies, cutely. But I don’t remember loving it.Tell me about that human mask on the bureau.We did a piece on the radio show about this artist who takes DNA from whatever, and then based on what she can discern from the DNA creates those faces. Without telling her who it was, my producers gave her some of my DNA.Do you see any semblance to yourself?I’m white! But I like it. It’s creepy.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion, and Vows), and Instagram.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
