Assessing Megatron: Calvin Johnson’s Numbers Are Nearly Unmatched - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Pro Football|Assessing Megatron: Calvin Johnson’s Numbers Are Nearly Unmatched
Assessing Megatron: Calvin Johnson’s Numbers Are Nearly Unmatched
Calvin Johnson averaged 5.4 receptions, 86.1 yards and 0.6 touchdowns a game.
Nicknames have largely become a thing of the past in the sports world, but when Calvin Johnson arrived in the N.F.L. it was clear that he was going to be an exception. Dubbed Megatron by his teammate Roy Williams, he took on a larger-than-life persona as a wide receiver who was bigger, stronger and faster than anyone else on the field, not unlike the Transformers character that inspired the name.
Amid reports that he is planning to retire after just nine seasons in the N.F.L., it appears that Johnson, capable of almost anything on a football field, was far more human than people wanted to admit. And with yet another star player in his prime choosing to walk away from the game, the brutality of the sport is once again front and center.
Shortly after the season ended for the Detroit Lions, Johnson released a statement through the team that said, “Like many players at this stage of their career, I am currently evaluating options for my future. I would expect to have a decision regarding this matter in the not-too-distant future.”The Lions, who drafted Johnson with the No. 2 pick in the 2007 draft, publicly supported his right to consider his future, saying they “understand and appreciate his decision to give proper thought and consideration to his football future.”
Complete coverage of the N.F.L.'s Super Bowl 50 from New York Times reporters and editors. Game time: 6:30 p.m. Feb. 7 on CBS.
Megyn Kelly Will Appear on Post-Super Bowl Colbert Show
Your Team Made the Super Bowl? Better Get a Flu Shot
Winning Mutes Second-Guessing for Rivera and Kubiak
Super Bowl Challenges Wisdom of Crowds and Oddsmakers
A Retro Super Bowl, Putting Defense and Running First
But as Johnson’s teammates have rushed to social media in the last few days to support his apparent decision, the Lions, while very likely hoping he will change his mind, may need to begin making plans for life without the player that has largely defined the franchise for nine years.
Does anybody really know what the “catch rule” is in the N.F.L.? If so, please explain it to us. Here are seven times this season we were all baffled by a ruling. How would you make the call?
Johnson would hardly be the first player in his prime to walk away from the game. Barry Sanders, another Lions great, famously retired at 30 just like Johnson, and more recently, Patrick Willis and Chris Borland chose to retire from the San Francisco 49ers in hopes of protecting their health. But considering his consistent quality production on the field, his durability despite having endured numerous lingering injuries over the years, and his relatively young age, Johnson would immediately enter the discussion as one of the best young players ever to walk away.In 135 career games, Johnson caught 731 passes for 11,619 yards and 83 touchdowns. In an era of inflated numbers and long careers for wide receivers, Johnson’s career line does not seem that incredible, but when you consider it on a per-game basis he puts himself into some elite company.For his career, Johnson has averaged 5.4 receptions, 86.1 yards and 0.6 touchdowns a game. Jerry Rice, who holds every significant record for a wide receiver, averaged 5.1 receptions, 75.6 yards and 0.7 touchdowns.Those numbers are skewed some because Rice played into his early 40s, which brought down some of his per-game production, but Johnson’s consistency has been overshadowed by his spectacular plays and athleticism. After a rookie season in which he started only 10 games, Johnson averaged an incredible 90.5 yards a game for the remainder of his career. Only 67 other players have averaged that many yards a game for even one season.
Johnson had 100 or more yards in a game 46 times, with a career-high of 329 yards in a 1-point victory over the Dallas Cowboys in 2013 that trails only Flipper Anderson’s 336 for the single-game record. He holds the record for single-season receiving yards with 1,964 in 2012.Like Sanders, who has been the subject of countless debates since his retirement, Johnson is likely to be talked about largely in terms of what he might have done had he not retired so young. But just as with Sanders, any such projections are ultimately pointless; judging players for their actual accomplishments is what should determine their legacy.Sanders’s accomplishments , led to immediate election into the Hall of Fame, but it could be a harder path for Johnson, considering the high bar that Canton has had for wide receivers. Cris Carter, Tim Brown and Andre Reed were all asked to endure long waits before election despite career statistics that dwarf Johnson’s.Johnson also does not have the postseason experience or success that helped boost the candidacy of players with lower career totals like Michael Irvin or Lynn Swann. Johnson’s reputation as perhaps the game’s top receiver for his entire career, and the notion that he could have been capable of so much more, may be enough for voters to let him in. But assuming his election is a given is probably incorrect.Regardless of his legacy, his career statistics, or his Hall of Fame candidacy, a player like Johnson walking away inspires a certain degree of mourning for players and fans. After Sunday’s Pro Bowl, Amari Cooper, a young wide receiver for the Oakland Raiders who grew up idolizing Johnson, seemed to sum up the overall feeling.“You never want to see the greats leave the game,” Cooper told reporters. “You feel like they’re going to be making plays forever. You want to be like them growing up, and you still want to see them make plays.”
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
