‘Grease: Live!’ Scores Big Ratings - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Live musicals on network television might be here to stay.Fox’s broadcast of “Grease: Live!” scored big ratings Sunday night, with 12.2 million people tuning in. That makes it the second-most-viewed in the recent run of live TV musicals, behind only NBC’s “The Sound of Music Live!,” which kicked off the trend in December 2013. (The others, “Peter Pan Live!” and “The Wiz Live!,” also ran on NBC.)“Grease: Live!” also got a strong 4.3 rating in the 18-to-49-year-old demographic vital to advertisers, better than
“The Wiz,” which was broadcast in December.The Fox production was energetic, and received mostly warm reviews. The director Thomas Kail, who is also the director of the Broadway hit “Hamilton,” got particularly high marks for making full use of the Warner Bros. lot where the live production was shot. The musical moved effortlessly from different sets and sound stages, occasionally breaking the fourth wall by showing a live audience.In December, NBC rebounded from 2014’s disappointing “Peter Pan” with “The Wiz,” which scored 11.5 million viewers. NBC executives have not confirmed their next live musical for December but have said they are in talks to do “Hairspray.”
‘Grease: Live!’ Puts Spectacle Above StoryFEB. 1, 2016
Meanwhile, Fox will move even faster than that. In March, it will broadcast a production of “The Passion,” live from New Orleans. The musical will depict Jesus Christ’s final days, and may be as ambitious as “Grease.” It will include an enormous procession of hundreds of people carrying a cross from the Superdome to a stage near the Mississippi River, and will be hosted by Tyler Perry.This is also the second straight week that Fox has benefited from a strong Sunday night. Last week, it debuted a revival of “The X-Files” — which followed the N.F.C. Championship — and scored a high rating as well.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
