Operation Turns Tilting Cargo Ship From Collision Course With French Coast - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Europe|Operation Turns Tilting Cargo Ship From Collision Course With French Coast
Operation Turns Tilting Cargo Ship From Collision Course With French Coast
A listing, out-of-control cargo ship on a collision course with the French coast has been rotated away from danger, French maritime officials said on Monday.The ship, the Modern Express, had been adrift in the Bay of Biscay between Spain and France since early last week, when it began tilting severely to its starboard side, prompting an aerial rescue of its 22 crew members.Since then, rough seas have thwarted attempts to attach a towline to the vessel — a Panamanian-flagged ship — that could be used to steer it back out to sea. On Friday, specialists succeeded in attaching a line, only to see it snap when powerful waves applied too much strain.With the vessel less than 30 miles from the coast on Monday, a window of milder weather presented officials with a last chance to take action before an expected collision by Tuesday.
A Panamanian cargo ship, Modern Express, was adrift in the Bay of Biscay near the French coast for days before rescue crews, hampered by high winds, could attempt to salvage it.
Photo by Loic Bernardin/Prefecture Maritime Atlantique, via Associated Press.
In a bold operation, four specialists from a Dutch maritime services company were again lowered from a helicopter onto the vessel, tilted at about 40 degrees, and they again attached a towline. French officials said a tugboat was then able to yank the ship away from danger.
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox. Monday – Friday.
Now, they said, they were keeping an eye on the line and the ship, hoping it would hold as they sought to create distance from the coast. Officials will then look for a safe harbor.The Modern Express had been traveling from Gabon to the French port of Le Havre, carrying timber and equipment, when it ran into trouble and issued a distress call last Tuesday.If the operation on Monday had failed, the ship had been expected to run aground in the Landes region by Tuesday night.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
