Meet the New Student Activists - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Clockwise from top left: Amanda Bennett, David C. Turner III, Nailah Harper-Malveaux, Brylan Donaldson, Storm Ervin, Josh Zuckerman, Josh Freeman
Clockwise from top left: Bob Miller, Emily Berl, Fred R. Conrad, Christopher Smith, Daniel Brenner and Fred R. Conrad, all for The New York Times
Young African-Americans and their allies are demanding change, leading people of all backgrounds to talk about issues that have lain dormant for decades. What do they want? Inclusion and representation — now. Here, seven students talk about the problems, the protests and themselves.
AMANDA BENNETT University of Alabama, TuscaloosaBio: Senior, English/African-American studies; co-organizer of We Are Done movement; producer and co-author of “How Does It Feel to Be a Problem” videoMy Story: I am totally African-American. My grandfather was a sharecropper in rural Alabama who moved to Atlanta and became a mechanic and worker at General Motors, so I grew up in Atlanta around middle-class black people. To come to Alabama and see this kind of segregation was horrifying to me. A lot of people who were impoverished 50 years ago, around the time of Selma, are still impoverished. Nothing has changed structurally.
“I’ve been blogging about the Machine for about a year, and every time I’d post something my hand would shake.”
It would be a lie to say I’ve never been fearful for my safety. I’ve been called the “n” word by fraternity men. I’ve had Muslim friends called the “n” word. Because of how Alabama is, black kids don’t have the political connections to make their voices count, so they’re even more vulnerable.I’ve experienced dozens of micro-aggressions: being forced off the sidewalk, or asked during class if all black people eat collard greens, or why the slaves didn’t just free themselves — this was in American literature class; we might have been reading “Huckleberry Finn.” Having to put on a happy face and pretend these things aren’t dehumanizing to me was a farce.The root cause of these issues is the Machine, an underground coalition of 28 fraternities and sororities that has controlled politics on campus for over 100 years. In recent decades, the Machine has been accused of assaulting and intimidating students — they’ve been known to key cars and draw swastikas on campus — and electioneering in student government and local elections.I’ve been blogging about the Machine for about a year, and every time I’d post something my hand would shake. But I thought: I have a voice. I couldn’t live with myself if I didn’t do anything. What I was doing was bigger than myself.
Join New York Times journalists for a live conversation about race on campuses, Thursday, Feb. 4, at 3 p.m. E.S.T.
What We Want: We Are Done was a demonstration held on Nov. 19. We marched from Malone Hood Plaza, where George Wallace stood and said Vivian Malone and James Hood could not enter, to the Gorgas Library, named after the wife of the Confederate general Josiah Gorgas, who was the university’s eighth president. About 300 of us sang “We Shall Overcome.”We Are Done was not just a protest; it’s also a movement. We are done tolerating the bigotry, injustice and social inequality on campus. We have 11 demands, which include implementing a division of diversity, funding programs that support multicultural work, and requiring the trustees to acknowledge the Machine and take steps to bring it above ground. Our demands are not radical but a logical extension of human rights.
“Ferguson sparked a movement on campus that let us know we have the right to fight back.” — Storm Ervin
Bio: December 2015 graduate, sociology/black studies; co-founder of Concerned Student 1950 (the year the university admitted its first black students)My Story: My freshman roommate would use colorblind racist terms like “ghetto” or “hood rat” to describe me. I went to a frat party and I saw a Confederate flag. I can’t say all white students are racist at Mizzou, but the culture I experienced was. It gave me a new way of understanding my reality — it was not about any individual, it was structural and institutional. The higher-ups enable this culture. We had the poop swastikas going on, and our leadership was silent about it.The Legion of Black Collegians puts on a homecoming for black students. They were rehearsing for an upcoming event when people called them “niggers.” President Wolfe didn’t find the need to do anything.About a week later, 10 of us stood in front of President Wolfe’s car during the all-school homecoming parade. We each recited a line about an incident of racist violence at Mizzou since 1950. A police officer put his hands on my chest; we were shoved off the street. Wolfe’s driver hit one of the demonstrators. Wolfe sat there and watched.
A review of campaigns since 1900 provides linear and ideological connections to today’s racial unrest.
That was our first major action under Concerned Student 1950. We wanted our voices to be heard. But a group of white people formed a line in front of us and began chanting over our reality. After, one black student, Jonathan Butler, decided to go on a hunger strike. The only way to save his life was to get Wolfe out of office. We had media, a petition that went around. Eventually, many of the football players announced they wouldn’t play until he resigned. Wolfe resigned.I have always wanted to give back to black people. Ferguson is two hours away. I had gone there in 2014 and added my body power to actions. Ferguson sparked a movement on campus that let us know we have the right to fight back. Now I definitely want to pursue a life in policy and social change.
What We Want: We released eight demands we thought would make the university less harmful to blacks. We want to see more black faculty. We want more black psychologists and mental health care officials. We want the president and chancellor to be selected by a collective of students, staff and faculty of diverse backgrounds. In the U.S., we get to choose our officials, but that’s not how it works at public institutions: The curators are not chosen by the people, they’re chosen by the governors. That’s not fair.
“I’m African-American and 6 feet 5. I’m constantly followed in stores; I’m pulled over a lot when I’m driving.”
University of California, BerkeleyBio: Ph.D. candidate, social and cultural studies in education; national organizer with the Black Liberation Collective, a coordinating hub for student activistsMy Story: My mother was very interested in giving us a nuanced understanding of what it means to be black, what black folks have to fight for. My dad was a former drug addict who went into drug rehabilitation work. He made sure we understood that just because these folks are down on their luck doesn’t mean they matter less.
After reading Paulo Freire’s “Pedagogy of the Oppressed” in 11th grade, I understood that education was part of a system to help reproduce oppression and oppressive contexts. If I was going to do anything with my life, it would be to transform that. I’m interested in education for social change. Not teaching in schools, but education that helps you see yourself and your world differently.I’m African-American and 6 feet 5. I’m constantly followed in stores; I’m pulled over a lot when I’m driving. I was 18 and the police almost blew my head off because I reached for my registration too quickly. I’ve never been taken in, but I’ve had to pay a lot of fines for mundane things. I had to pay $200 because my taillight wasn’t bright enough! That’s what we’re fighting against.
Just because Berkeley sits on the political left doesn’t mean racism doesn’t happen here. On campus, if more than five black people congregate, a police presence pops up. They never say anything; they just stand there and watch, which is creepy.
Sign up here to join a deep and provocative exploration of race with New York Times journalists. Coming soon.
Students at the social work school here held a teach-in over racist comments one of their white professors had made. He said Black Lives Matter should focus on black-on-black crime rather than police brutality. He read a rap song he wrote about it. First and foremost, it’s empirically inaccurate for someone with a Ph.D. who studies vulnerable communities to assert such a thing. Second, to be so culturally insensitive as to insist that the only way you can get black students to understand is to do a rap song, especially in a graduate program at one of the top schools in the country, is insulting.What We Want: Folks were asking Mizzou, “How can we help? How can we be there for you?” They said, “Don’t come here; we want you to do this on your campus.” There hasn’t really been a coordinated effort to help build student leadership at the national level for at least two decades, since the Black Student Leadership Network. We want to help students build their campaigns so their message gets out to a larger audience. Young black people have the potential to transform American politics. That’s what we’re seeing at this very moment.
“On Facebook it was heavily hinted I was a traitor and white sympathizer”
— Josh Freeman, left“Students are intimidated or otherwise unwilling to express what they believe.”
JOSH FREEMAN Princeton UniversityBio: Sophomore, mechanical and aerospace engineering; co-founder of Princeton Open Campus Coalition, aimed at protecting “diversity of thought and the right of all students to advance their academic and personal convictions in a manner free from intimidation”
My Story: I went to a small, mostly white high school in Norfolk, Va. My friends and I — both black and white kids — would joke with each other in ways that could be considered racist. But there was no animosity between us. We’d known each other forever. At Princeton, everyone is much more concerned with the way they speak.
If students at Princeton feel they must protest, then there is a problem that needs to be discussed. But they’re not trying to discuss it, they’re trying to force their ideals on the university. I respect what the student activists are doing here, but not the way they’re going about it and the directions of the demands. They try to silence anyone who disagrees with them. It’s a very “us versus them” mentality. On Facebook it was heavily hinted I was a traitor and white sympathizer.
What We Want: I disagree with those who want to rename the Woodrow Wilson building and college. Wilson is a part of Princeton’s history. We can’t erase this, no matter what. We have to discuss the good and the bad with his legacy. I went back to my high school over break and talked to my teachers and some students about what was going on at Princeton. Most of them were liberal, but they agreed with my sentiments.JOSH ZUCKERMAN Princeton UniversityBio:
Senior, politics; co-founder of Princeton Open Campus CoalitionMy Story: I’ve always been interested in politics. I joined The Princeton Tory, a political and philosophical magazine with a conservative bent, in my freshman year. I’m now editor in chief. But the coalition has nothing to do with the magazine. This is something I’ve been feeling for a long time, that students are intimidated or otherwise unwilling to express what they believe.What We Want: Before the P.O.C.C. was founded, a friend and I wrote a petition outlining what we found objectionable about the demands that the Black Justice League had made; it has more than 1,800 signatures. One goal is to try to unite people across all ideologies. We need a campus culture where disagreement is managed in a civil manner and no one resorts to name calling or bullying techniques to silence those who disagree with them.I don’t think anyone reasonable would assume we are honoring Woodrow Wilson for his racism. The best way to acknowledge his legacy is to preserve the monument and reinforce the fact that he had appalling beliefs that were wrong then and wrong now. If we cannot look toward Wilson as a source of honor, then we can’t go back to Jefferson, Plato, Aristotle. Margaret Sanger advocated eugenics! Abraham Lincoln had some very racist ideas. If we can’t honor someone who has a past, there won’t be anyone left to honor.
“Black women are at the bottom of the totem pole. When you free women of color, you free everyone.” — Nailah Harper-Malveaux
NAILAH HARPER-MALVEAUX, Yale UniversityBio: Senior, American studies/theater studies; director of theatrical productions that tell the stories of African-AmericansMy Story: I’ve been surrounded by social justice and law my whole life. My mom is a civil rights lawyer turned law professor at Catholic University, while my dad is U.S. ambassador to the U.N. Human Rights Council. My dad is Cherokee and Macanese, from Macau, and my mom is Creole, a mixture of Spanish and black descent. I don’t look white but I don’t look black, either. I identify as Indian and black. Because I’m mixed I have been very conscious of race my whole life, which is probably why I’ve participated in so many political events at Yale, including the midnight march to walk the demands to the president’s house. It was very empowering.What We Want:
The immediate goal is a more inclusive Yale. There’s more to be done, but the dialogue is a huge step. White allies trying to understand is a huge step. The administration listening is a huge step. There’s a dearth of voices of women of color in the Yale theater community. Black women are at the bottom of the totem pole. When you free women of color, you free everyone.
“I haven’t experienced racism on campus at all. I played football and we’re treated differently.”
BRYLAN DONALDSON University of Kansas, LawrenceBio: Junior, information technology; co-founder of TEAM Jayhawks (for Together Everyone Achieves More)My Story: My dad has been in jail off and on since I was born. The longest he’s been out is three months. I don’t even know what he’s in for. Although I don’t see him that often, I give him all the credit. He pushed upon me the importance of being educated and being aware locally and nationally.
I haven’t experienced racism on campus at all. Part of it is the environment I’ve been in — I’m an athlete. I played football and we’re treated differently. We get more respect. But also, there are two criteria for racism to exist: The person making the comments or gestures has to intend to do it, and the receiver has to be willing to accept that gesture or comment as racist. “Sticks and stones can break my bones” — that’s my attitude.What We Want: We founded TEAM Jayhawks in response to the protests on campus. The other founders and I felt the activists were going about it in a disrespectful manner, and in a way the larger student body could not empathize with. For example, at a community forum hosted by the chancellor, members of a minority group, Rock Chalk Invisible Hawk, took the mike and started cussing her out. Now, Rock Chalk had been trying to push its demands for two years; they lashed out because nothing had been done. They were angry. I understand that. We stand in solidarity with other minority organizations on campus, but our methods are different.Two friends and I are entrepreneurs, and a few months ago we did “Start Up Weekend.” We learned about a concept called design thinking, a human-centered approach to solving problems. We plan to have people gather around and come up with ideas on a topic we give them. From there, they’ll break into small groups, share their ideas and get feedback. Not only do you get insight and answers but a perspective you may not have had before. We don’t want to be called activists. We’re educators.
Abby Ellin is a freelance writer in New York and author of “Teenage Waistland.” Interviews in this article have been condensed.
A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 2016, on page ED2 of Education Life with the headline: The New Activists.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
