W.H.O. Declares Zika Virus a Global Health Emergency - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Health|W.H.O. Declares Zika Virus a Global Health Emergency
W.H.O. Declares Zika Virus a Global Health Emergency
The World Health Organization declaration signals the seriousness of the Zika outbreak and gives countries powerful new tools to fight it.
The World Health Organization declared the Zika virus and its suspected link to birth defects an international public health emergency on Monday, a rare move that signals the seriousness of the outbreak and gives countries powerful new tools to fight it.
An outbreak of the Zika virus, which is transmitted by mosquitoes, was detected in Brazil last May and has since moved into more than 20 countries in Latin America. The main worry is over the virus’s possible link to microcephaly, a condition that causes babies to be born with brain damage and unusually small heads. Reported cases of microcephaly are rising sharply in Brazil, ground zero for the disease, though researchers have yet to establish a direct link.At a news conference in Geneva, Dr. Margaret Chan, the director general of the W.H.O, said that clusters of microcephaly in regions with Zika cases “constitute an extraordinary event and a public health threat to other parts of the world.”
Complete coverage of the spread of Zika virus and efforts to contain it.
Microcephaly, Spotlighted by Zika Virus, Has Long Afflicted and Mystified
Colombia Reports More Than 2,100 Pregnant Women Have Zika Virus
New York City Officials Announce Efforts to Fight Zika Virus
Researchers Weigh Risks of Zika Spreading at Rio Olympics
She added that “international reponse is needed to minimize the threat in infected countries and reduce risk of international spread.” Dr. Chan said case control studies on the connection between Zika and microcephaly will start in the next two weeks.
Why scientists are worried about the growing epidemic and its effects on pregnant women, and advice on how to avoid the infection.
The official “emergency” designation can trigger action and funding from governments and non-profits around the world. It elevates the W.H.O. to the position of global coordinator, and gives its decisions the force of international law. The agency is trying to cast itself as a global leader to revive its reputation after a faltering response during the Ebola epidemic in West Africa.“Can you imagine if we do not do all this work now and wait until all these scientific evidence to come out, people will say why didn’t you take action?” Dr. Chan said.
The current outbreak of Zika has taken the world by surprise. It was first identified in 1947 in Uganda, and for years lived mostly in monkeys. But last May in Brazil, cases began increasing drastically. The W.H.O. has estimated that four million people could be infected by the end of the year. It is spreading fast in the Americas because people there have not developed immunity.
Sign up to receive an email from The New York Times as soon as important news breaks around the world.
The W.H.O. has declared a public health emergency three times since 2007, when it first established the procedure — for the influenza panademic in 2009; in 2014 when polio seemed resurgent; and in August 2014 for Ebola. Some experts applauded the decision to add Zika to the list.“This should be a global wake up call,” said Lawrence O. Gostin, director of the O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law at Georgetown University. But he added: “The main question on my mind is whether they will back up their words with decisive action.”Zika’s rapid rise and the specter of associated birth defects have major implications in a warm region with struggling economies and vast flows of tourists. Brazil is preparing to host the Olympics this summer, and Zika is complicating those plans. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has advised pregnant Americans to avoid travel to the region.
How has the Zika virus affected your pregnancy or the birth of your child? / Como sua gravidez ou seu bebê foram afetados pelo vírus Zika? *
Do you live in a country where Zika has been reported? / Você vive num país com incidência de Zika? *
Have you recently visited a country where Zika has been reported? / Você esteve recentemente em alguma região onde o vírus Zika foi detectado? *
What have you done to protect yourself from the spread of the Zika virus? / O que você tem feito para se proteger do vírus Zika?
How has the spread of the Zika virus influenced your decision to become pregnant or have a child? / Como a propagação do vírus Zika influenciou sua decisão de engravidar ou de ter um bebê?
Where do you live? (City, State, Country) / Onde você mora? (Cidade, Estado, País) *
May a reporter contact you? / Você se importa de ser contatada por um repórter? *
By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, doesn’t plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, doesn’t violate anybody’s rights and isn’t libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. You are agreeing that we can use your submission in all manner and media of The New York Times and that we shall have the right to authorize third parties to do so. And you agree to the rules of our Member Agreement, found online at our website.
Still, American officials have taken pains to underscore that the virus does not pose a major threat to the United States, where mosquito control efforts are robust and effective.
But now that an emergency has been declared, the W.H.O. can issue global travel advisories, and crucially, coordinate global efforts to combat the mosquitoes that spread Zika, a role that is badly needed as mosquito populations are fluid and know no boundaries. The agency will also help coordinate surveillance efforts, including tracking and tallying cases of Zika and microcephaly.
The last time the W.H.O. declared a public health emergency was when Ebola was tearing through West Africa. But the agency was strongly criticized for weighing in very late, and many global health experts said it was unlikely that the agency’s director, Dr. Chan, would let that happen again.“The W.H.O. took a very serious hit to their reputation,” said Dr. Ron Waldman, a professor of global health at the Milken School of Public Health at George Washington University. “They do have to be mindful of the politics, but they have to get the science right, too. They don’t have much room for slip-ups.”Zika and Ebola are very different. Ebola was incredibly deadly, and it spread through contact with bodily fluids. Zika is not known to be fatal, and it has mild symptoms for most people. So far, the evidence is inconclusive that the virus is the cause of the birth defects, so some health officials had been cautious about drawing too dire a picture.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
