Google's legal problems surrounding data collection around the world intensified today when it emerged that the company faces a police investigation in Australia, the latest in a growing number of countries expressing concern about the its Street View mapping services.

The probe, which comes amid accusations that Google breached privacy laws, was announced a day after the firm agreed to hand over data it has collected through wireless networks to French, German and Spanish authorities. Canada has also recently launched a probe into Google amid privacy concerns relating to the Street View service which uses camera-equipped fleets of cars to take 360 degree panoramic pictures for an online atlas.

Last month, Google acknowledged it had mistakenly collected fragments of data over public and unsecured Wi-Fi networks in more than 30 countries as it was taking pictures of neighbourhoods. It said it discovered the problem after German regulators launched an inquiry into the matter.

In the UK, the information commissioner ruled last year that Google's Street View technology carries a small risk of privacy invasion but should not be stopped, although members of the public have taken direct action in at least one location to prevent the company from taking photographs on their streets.

Residents in Broughton blocked the driver of a Google Street View car, which captures the photos, when it tried to enter the village, near Milton Keynes.

The Australian investigation comes as more regulators and consumers watchdogs around the world are complaining that Google does not take people's privacy seriously enough.

Google maintains that its users' privacy is one of the company's highest priorities. Australia's communications minister Stephen Conroy has accused Google of being responsible for the "single greatest breach in the history of privacy".

Google apologised, saying it accidentally collected the information. The company and the Australian government are arguing over Senator Conroy's proposed mandatory internet filter, which Google says amounts to censorship.

"There have been some complaints voiced … by the public in respect to practices that have been reported involving allegations that some information may have been obtained by staff of Google travelling around the streets," said

Australia's federal attorney general Robert McClelland.

"In light of concerns having been raised by the public, my department thought there were issues of substance that were raised that require police investigation." The case was referred to the Australian federal police on Friday, he said. It will focus on whether the company breached the country's telecommunications interceptions act, which prevents people accessing electronic communications other than for authorised purposes.

"This was a mistake," Google said in a statement. "We are talking to the appropriate authorities to answer any questions they have."

The US Federal Trade Commission has already begun an informal inquiry into the matter and Google has said it would co-operate with authorities.

Last month Michigan Democrat John Conyers, the head of the House Judiciary Committee in the United States, sent letters to Google and Facebook urging them to co-operate with any government privacy inquiries. Conyers asked Google to retain the data until any inquiries are complete.

Google first revealed that cars were also collecting wireless data in April, but said no personal information from Wi-Fi networks was involved.

But after an audit requested by Germany, Google acknowledged in May it mistakenly had collected samples of "payload data."

Suits have been filed in Washington, California, Massachusetts and Oregon by people who accuse Google of violating their privacy by collecting data from open Wi-Fi networks.

On its official blog Google has said that the software code responsible for collecting the data was used by mistake, and that all Street View cars were grounded when the mistake was discovered.