Presenting our Bethesda & Senate.gov double surprise release: http://t.co/9GsZRA0 May the lulz flow through you! The Lulz Boat

LulzSec

Lulz Security, a group of hackers who have claimed responsibility for a number of recent online data breaches, claimed two more victims on Monday, including Bethesda Softworks, a video game company, and the Web site of the United States Senate.

The hackers claim that they breached Bethesda Softworks’ servers over two months ago, but just released server data Monday. The group also said it has over 200,000 gamer usernames and passwords that it took from the site. The group said it has not yet decided whether it will release this information to the public.

Bethesda Softworks did not respond to a request for comment about the data breach.

Lulz Security also said on Twitter that it had successfully attacked the United States Senate Web site.

In a release issued on the hacker’s Web site, the group said they were releasing a “small” amount of data from senate.gov “in an attempt to help them fix their issues.” The files released are relatively harmless and only show a thin layer of internal data on the government Web site.

Martina Bradford, the deputy sergeant-at-arms of the Senate, said in a statement Monday that security staff at senate.gov became aware of the attacks over the weekend. The statement noted that the hackers did not infiltrate any Senate computers, or the government firewall, but were able to breach the public Web site’s files and file structures of its servers.

“As always, we continue to work with our federal cyber security and law enforcement partners to enhance the security of federal government Web sites,” the statement said. “We are also initiating a review of all the sites hosted on senate.gov, urging the individuals responsible for those sites to conduct their own review, and continuing to take other actions to safeguard the Senate’s public Web presence.”

Lulz Security has claimed responsibility for hacking a number of other sites and organizations over the past two months, including PBS.org, Sonypictures.com and an Web site associated with the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

A press officer or the F.B.I. declined to comment about the latest attacks.