BERLIN — Prosecutors in Hamburg opened a criminal investigation against Google on Wednesday over its collection of private Internet data from unsecured home wireless networks in Germany.

The action in the city-state of Hamburg, where Google’s German headquarters is located, could increase pressure on the world’s largest search engine company operator to turn over one of the hard drives used in its data-gathering effort, something Google has declined to do thus far.

German data protection officials on Monday set a May 26 deadline for Google to hand over one of the hard drives from the roving vehicles it used to compiled its 360-degree Street View photo mapping archive.

The investigation, which will determine whether prosecutors bring criminal charges against Google employees, came in response to a complaint filed Monday by Jens Ferner, a law student from Alsdorf, Germany. Mr. Ferner said he wanted to clarify German law regarding the collection of data from unsecured wireless area networks, or WLANs.

“We are absolutely at an early stage,” Wilhelm Möllers, a spokesman for the Hamburg prosecutor’s office, said during an interview. “This isn’t something that will be wrapped up in two or three weeks. We have to analyze whether there is reason to file criminal charges.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Under pressure from German privacy regulators, Google said Friday that it had inadvertently collected 600 gigabytes of data from unsecured WLANs around the world as it assembled its Street View archive. Google said the data, which it has described as snippets of Web sites and the contents of personal e-mail messages, was collected because of a programming error. The company has offered to destroy the data, in conjunction with regulators.

Kay Oberbeck, a Google spokesman in Hamburg, said Wednesday that “as we have said since we made our announcement last week, we are working with the relevant authorities to answer their questions and concerns.”

Google so far has not agreed to turn over one of its hard drives to German for inspection. Under German law, a conviction for illegal data gathering carries a 2-year prison sentence or a fine.

Mr. Möllers said it was too early to say whether prosecutors in would ask Google for one of the hard drives as part of the criminal investigation.

Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg data protection supervisor who made the original request to Google to inspect one of the hard drives, said he met earlier Wednesday with Google executives to discuss Street View and the improperly obtained WLAN data.

Mr. Caspar said the Google representatives did not commit to supplying one of the hard drives by the deadline next Wednesday. “But they assured me that we would have an answer to our request by then,” Mr. Caspar said during an interview. “It can be that this separate criminal investigation may increase their readiness to meet our request. I don’t know.”

While accepted in Britain and France, Street View has encountered resistance in Germany and Switzerland, where privacy laws are stricter than in the rest of Europe and opposition to the 360-degree photo archive has been growing. The German criminal investigation is the latest in a series of privacy disputes involving the search engine in Europe.

In February, three Google executives were convicted in Italian court of violating privacy laws after youths posted a video on YouTube, which is owned by Google, showing the harassment of an autistic boy. Google has said it will appeal the conviction. In Switzerland, Google has agreed to freeze further expansion of its Street View archive in the country pending the outcome of a legal challenge by the federal data commissioner.

Street View is not yet available in Germany, where thousands of residents have asked that Google exclude their homes, faces and cars, to the German consumer protection ministry said.