dispute rekindled at nuclear panel


by ben a. franklin, special to the new york times


published: april 3, 1986









washington, april 2— 
                    the justice department said today that it was considering whether to bring criminal charges against the top investigator of the nuclear regulatory commission, whom the agency reinstated last week.        

                    the issue is how the investigator, sharon r. connelly, the agency's inspector general, handled a complaint of job discrimination and sexual harassment filed by an employee.        

                    in a letter to the panel commissioners on march 21, justice department lawyers described mrs. connelly's conduct as ''misguided,'' ''incorrect'' and as representing ''potential violations.'' the employee's complaint was made against the deputy director of mrs. connelly's office.        

                    lawrence lippe, a lawyer in the justice department, wrote, ''we have decided to defer institution of criminal charges until we can assess whether administrative action satisfies justice.''        

                    on thursday, however, the commission reinstated mrs. connelly, announcing that ''while there was a problem of perception'' about her conduct, the charges were ''not substantiated.''        

                    the reopening of the justice investigation was confirmed by john russell, a department spokesman.        

                    mrs. connelly was suspended with pay on jan. 28.        

                    through her lawyer, august bequai, mrs. connelly today reasserted her innocence. mr. bequai accused the justice department of ''orchestrating selective leakage'' of its march 21 letter ''in the face of the n.r.c. conclusion that this woman has done nothing wrong.''        

                    according to the justice department letter, the allegations being ''reassessed'' were that mrs. connelly, in an attempt to deter a sexual harassment complaint by an auditor and to intimidate the auditor, ordered an unauthorized disclosure of the auditor's security file. the justice department letter said that withdrawing security records for a ''privately conducted fishing expedition to obtain 'dirt' against an employee'' would be a violation of the privacy act.        

                    the root of the dispute, the sexual harassment complaint against mrs. connelly's deputy, george h. messenger, has been settled by negotiation, regulatory commission officials said. mr. messenger, who denied the charges, has been transferred to another position.
