essay; myths of the confirmation


by william safire


published: october 17, 1991









vancouver, british columbia— 
                    myths are already being made about the clarence thomas hearings that should be exploded before they become received truth.        

                    myth 1. because anita hill was sharply cross-examined and ultimately not believed by a majority, abused women will now refuse to come forward.        

                    the fact is that women now know their rights in the workplace as never before. when a supervisor abuses power, the harassee should (a) make plain the advance is unwelcome; (b) start a "specter diary"; (c) tell a confidant like a pastor or a lawyer, and (d) if it continues, go to the boss's boss or file a complaint. the hearings drilled a consciousness of power-abuse into every boss's head; that's good. we also learned that belated complaints urged by political coaches won't fly; that's good, too.        

                    ( professor hill herself never did "come forward," 10 years after thinking she had been harassed; she was drawn forward by a political pressure group that used her to try to destroy a nominee.)        

                    myth 2.    black americans were diminished in this black vs. black confrontation.    the opposite is true. instead of seeing the usual parade of black politicians or militant leaders demanding entitlements on television, or seeing blacks portrayed as humorous cosbys or sitcom characters, the nation was exposed to an array of articulate, sincere, fiercely loyal (on both sides) witnesses from the upwardly mobile professional class.        

                    long after we forget who was on which side, we will remember the intellectual sparkle of the history professor nancy fitch, and the moving testimony of ellen wells, the welfare manager. the cut-the-comedy summation of carlton stewart shut up senators simpson and leahy, and stanley grayson -- who looked at first like a tackle for the new york giants -- turned out to be an incisive investment banker whose authoritative presence contrasted with the bowl of quaking jell-o that was the senator from alabama.        

                    judge thomas, aroused, was inspiring; professor hill, believe her or not, was self-possessed and impressive. embarrassment is misplaced; it was a great day for black pride.        

                    myth 3.    the public will be swayed by "lie detector" stunts.    the accusation publicity machine hired an ex-f.b.i. sweat merchant to apply a no-lose nervousness test to its client, and of course she displayed her cool -- which was announced as proof of "truth." some media and a few hypocritical civil libertarians played along with this insult to the public's intelligence and are now sorry they did; the next step is to get the f.b.i. to stop suggesting the possibility of such tests in its interviews. the polygraph stunt backfired; the populace is not as stupid as some inside the beltway think.        

                    myth 4.    a u.s. senator has an unbeatable advantage over a citizen witness.    senator howard metzenbaum, not under oath, declared his innocence in the leaking of the hill affidavit, but he soon demonstrated his willingness to go beyond the bounds of decency in seeking to discredit john doggett, one of the hill discreditors.        

                    not even the panel's democrats could stomach this attempt to read an interview based on unsworn smears into the record, and the vicious intimidation was expunged. that was the low point of the hearings, but the way metzenbaumism repelled everyone augurs well for the future. in the end, the besmearer was alone and despised by his peers; ms. hill leaves the field with her head high, but senator metzenbaum and his staff slink away.        

                    myth 5.    the process destroys good people.    certainly the leakage of unsubstantiated sex charges must be stopped, but the near-victimization was self-cleaning.        

                    the man the senate confirmed is better than the man the president nominated: we are fortunate that judge thomas did not melt in the firestorm. he goes to the highest court with an understanding of the need to protect the rights of the accused, and to defend the right of privacy, learned in the hottest crucible.        

                    the accuser had the burden of truth and the accused had the benefit of the doubt. now it is for clarence thomas to dispel the residue of doubt by the forcefulness of his opinions -- to take up the burden by proving he can become a great justice.
