Pop Facebook Quiz: Should You Take It? - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser.
Personal Tech|Pop Facebook Quiz: Should You Take It?
A man surfs the Facebook site on his mobile phone in Mumbai, India in this May 2012 file image.
More than 17 million people have taken a delightful little quiz on Facebook that displays their most-often used words in a sweet word cloud.
Just. Dance. Today. (Most used words by me, on Facebook, in 2015) #NotSurprised pic.twitter.com/7Sf7x4HEYF
These are my most used words on Facebook. Not a surprise…? Also, where is "PUPPIES"?! pic.twitter.com/wPREGY4u6k
Cute, right? Along with “Who Are the Hottest Friends Around You?” and “What Do People Talk Behind My Back?,” “What Are Your Most Used Words on Facebook?” is one of hundreds of quizzes, created by the South Korean company Vonvon, that require Facebook users to log in.And online security experts are now calling this practice a privacy nightmare.A blog post on the Internet security website Comparitech zeros in on the words quiz because it asks for access to different aspects of a user’s Facebook profile, including what’s listed on public profiles and friends lists. The application also scrapes data from a user’s Facebook timeline to create the final word cloud.The problem, Comparitech said, is that the quiz’s terms of use allow Vonvon to store that data for an unlimited amount of time, on servers throughout the world, and with third parties.“Stick to quizzes that just let you share the results without logging in with your Facebook account, such as the ones on Buzzfeed,” the post concluded.But what could Vonvon do with things like a user’s birth date? Jonghwa Kim, the company’s chief executive, told VentureBeat that there was not much Vonvon can do.“There are some false rumors that we are trying to capture people’s information so we can sell it to third parties,” Mr. Kim said. “We don’t really get any meaningful information when people use our apps. And when they share it on their walls, it really doesn’t have much information about them.”In a follow-up with Comparitech, Mr. Kim reiterated that Vonvon did not store personal information and that “we have nothing to sell. Period.”Compare that with the vast amount of data you’re giving away free to Facebook’s advertising platform — no quiz required.“Facebook has deep, deep data on its users. You can slice and dice markets, like women 25 to 35 who live in the Southeast and are fans of ‘Breaking Bad,’ ” Rebecca Lieb, a digital advertising and media analyst at the Altimeter Group, a research firm, told The Times in 2014.
Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.
